Is the bull run over? Stocks get shellacked
So long, Dow 22,000. Stocks took a hit for a third straight day Thursday as North Korea's nuclear threats seemed again to roil the markets. The Dow fell more than 200 points, a nearly 1% drop, and its biggest dip in three months. Only 3 of the 30 stocks in the Dow finished the day with a gain: IBM (IBM, Tech30), Coca-Cola (KO) and McDonald's (MCD).  But are investors really nervous about a possible military conflict with Kim Jong Un? Or are people using these geopolitical concerns as an excuse to take money out of the market --- tech stocks in particular?  The Nasdaq, Wall Street's home to many high profile tech companies, finished the day down more than 2%. That's a much steeper drop than the ones experienced by the Dow and S&P 500.  Shares of Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) and Facebook (FB, Tech30) fell more than 2% Thursday.  Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) and red hot chip company Nvidia (NVDA, Tech30) dropped around 4%.  However these stocks -- along with tech giants Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) and Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30), Google's parent -- have been among the top performers all year. Apple is still up 35% for 2017 and hovers near a record high.   Nvidia soared 55% this year after notching the biggest gains in the S&P 500 in 2016. (But it fell further in after hours trading Thursday despite releasing a strong earnings report that topped Wall Street's forecasts.)  It makes sense that investors would start to cut their positions in some of their winners and look for other investments that might be better bets for a rockier period for the markets and global economy.  Related: Eerie quiet on Wall Street is finally broken  To that end, gold prices shot up to near $1,300 an ounce -- their highest level in several months.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury bond fell to 2.2% and is approaching its lowest level of the year. That is significant because yields fall when bond prices rise.  In other words, investors are dumping stocks and buying bonds, which many view as a safe haven in times of turmoil.  Defense companies look like a safe bet. Lockheed Martin (LMT), Northrop Grumman (NOC), Raytheon (RTN) and L3 Technologies (LLL) hit record highs for a second straight day. The strong performance of these companies is clearly related to the North Korea drama.  But in some respects, investors do seem more scared.  The VIX (VIX), a measure of Wall Street volatility, spiked more than 30% Thursday. CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index, which looks at the VIX and six other gauges of market sentiment, tipped toward Fear.  The index was showing signs of Greed just two days ago while the Dow was in the midst of a winning streak that included nine straight record highs.  Still, the market has had several fits and starts over the past few months.  The Dow fell for eight straight days back in March. That was the longest losing streak since 2011. But the market quickly bounced back, led by many of the tech stocks that were sinking on Thursday.  So it looks like the new normal on Wall Street might be a return of volatility.  Investors are no longer ignoring headlines -- and their mood may turn on a dime. 
Consumer Reports pulls recommendation for Microsoft Surface laptops
Consumer Reports is no longer recommending Microsoft Surface laptops and tablets. The publication on Thursday removed its "recommended" rating for Microsoft's Surface Laptop and the Surface Book. This applies to both 128GB and 512GB storage options.  This is the first time in two years Consumer Reports removed a laptop recommendation when it pulled ratings for three Hewlett-Packard (HPQ) models and a Lenovo (LNVGF) laptop due to repair histories.  Consumer Reports recently conducted a survey of nearly 91,000 people who bought new laptops and tablets between 2014 and the beginning of 2017. The study estimated that about 25% of Microsoft Surface devices will have problems by the end of the second year of owning the product. These problems could include a laptop randomly shutting down.  That finding applies to Microsoft devices with detachable keyboards, such as the new Surface Pro and the Surface Book, in addition to Surface laptops with clamshell designs.  Related: Tesla reclaims top Consumer Reports rating  "Microsoft is relatively new to the hardware business, and this is the first year we've had enough data to estimate predicted reliability for the company's laptops," the publication said in the report.  The publication, known for unbiased product testing, said it can't recommend any other Microsoft laptops or tablets due to "poor predicted reliability" compared to other brands.  Some survey respondents reported problems with their Microsoft devices during the start-up phase. Others said the touch screen was not responsive enough or that the devices froze or shut off unexpectedly. The report does not specify how many users experienced this.  Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) launched its first Surface tablet in 2012. Most recently, the company unveiled the Surface Laptop, a portable option for students, and updated the Surface Pro, a laptop with a touchscreen.   Related: Microsoft takes on Apple with new $999 Surface Laptop  However, Microsoft told CNN Tech it doesn't believe the findings accurately reflect Surface owners' "true experiences."  "Microsoft Surface Pro is designed and built with performance and reliability in mind. Microsoft's real-world return and support rates for past models differ significantly from Consumer Reports' breakage predictability," a Microsoft spokesman said.  Microsoft also pointed out that the Surface Pro, for example, received high performance and versatility marks in Consumer Reports' laptop lab evaluations.  The publication said "a number of Microsoft products" have performed well in its lab tests but noted predicted reliability is also important to consumers.  Apple (AAPL, Tech30) remains the most reliable laptop and tablet brand, according to Consumer Reports' survey. 
