Quest: Are America's CEOs the new moral compass?
Welcome to Quest's Profitable Moment.  What's going on in the world of business -- and what does it mean? CNNMoney Editor at Large Richard Quest explains it all with his distinct voice and global perspective in an exclusive video each week. You'll also get a round-up of the stories everybody's talking about in the U.S., Asia and Europe.   Sign up here for the newsletter version, which will arrive in your inbox every Thursday afternoon. Or read it online every Friday morning.   Quest's Profitable Moment  As you read our first weekly edition, once again we are living in a moment of uncertainty, awaiting further details on the deadly attack in Barcelona, which has been confirmed as a terror attack. If so, it adds to a week where events in the U.S. have left us all reeling and wondering what on earth is going on in the White House. It seems there is a dearth of leadership wherever we look -- except perhaps with America's CEOs.  Corporate America, it seems, has a new role: Be the alarm siren when it sees unacceptable behavior and injustice. The CEOs on President Trump's advisory panels drove the criticism of his reaction to Charlottesville (both the initial Saturday statement and "that" press conference on Tuesday).  There is some precedent to this. For instance, the North Carolina state legislature passed a bill requiring people to use the bathroom of their birth gender, not how they identified themselves. Companies like IBM and Salesforce complained the law would make the state less attractive for employees, while PayPal put an investment on hold.  In Texas, 50 companies, including the nation's top oil firms, made exactly the same argument against a similar bathroom bill that died in special session this week.  CEOs are a reticent lot when it comes to controversy. But they are also finding their companies on the wrong side as shareholders and employees want their company to take a stand on injustice. When activists start demanding boycotts of your goods, then companies start to listen -- just as when Fox News saw sponsors flee Bill O'Reilly after allegations of sexually improper behavior were made. O'Reilly was gone within weeks.   Jamie Dimon, the CEO of JP Morgan Chase, said over Charlottsville: "It is a leader's role, in business or government, to bring people together." Because Dimon has over 240,000 employees and tens of millions of customers, he has a duty and responsibility to speak out.  Sign up for the Quest's Profitable Moment newsletter  At the moment, Corporate America is threading its way through this minefield with relatively mild criticism of the president himself, but strong denunciation of right wing neo-Nazis.    While the issue of racism is a no-brainer for CEOs to speak out against, the chief executive as a moral compass is a tricky path to follow. When do you speak out? When do you not? The corporate bully pulpit needs to be used sparingly otherwise you risk devaluing your moral currency and people stop listening.  What's new  Many dead in Barcelona attack  A van plowed into a crowd of pedestrians in Las Ramblas, one of Barcelona's most iconic areas. Spanish officials called it a terror attack. As of 4 p.m. ET Thursday, at least 12 people were killed and more than 50 are wounded. Local officials say the death count is "bound to rise."  Two suspects have been arrested, though another driver later on Thursday evening ran over two Spanish police officers at a security checkpoint. Please follow CNN for more coverage. -- By Patrick Gillespie  CEOs always had uneasy alliance with Trump  Blackstone's Stephen Schwarzman compared Trump to circus showman P.T. Barnum in 2015. Elon Musk said last year he didn't back Trump. But both joined business advisory groups set up by Trump.  The councils were dissolved after Corporate America showed its disapproval of Trump's response to violence at a white supremacy rally in Charlottesville. More business titans are voicing their opposition, including Apple's Tim Cook and Howard Schultz of Starbucks.  -- By Paul R. La Monica  Key tech firm cuts ties with Neo-Nazi website  Another internet firm has dumped The Daily Stormer. A growing number of companies are refusing to provide the online infrastructure to support the neo-Nazi wesite after it published an inflammatory story about Heather Heyer, who was killed last weekend in Virginia at a violent rally of white supremacists.  Internet firm Cloudflare said Wednesday that it had shut down The Daily Stormer's account and won't protect it from cyberattacks that could bring it down. Earlier this week, web-hosting services GoDaddy and Google gave The Daily Stormer the boot. Still, it's a matter of major debate.  -- By Julia Horowitz  Alibaba catching up to Amazon in market cap  Jeff Bezos may have more to worry about than criticism from Trump. Amazon's Chinese rival Alibaba reported earnings and sales that were much better than forecasts. Alibaba's stock surged to a record high as a result.  Jack Ma's e-commerce and cloud computing giant is now within distance of passing Amazon's market value for the first time since 2015. But both Amazon and Alibaba can't ignore Walmart and Target. They posted strong digital sales, too.  Quick takes  Spotify is deleting white supremacist songs from its streaming service  A new online retailers wants to offer savings by ditching brands  This anti-human trafficking group uses data to track criminals  President Trump's war on regulation comes with big tradeoffs  Facebook and hate groups: Here's why some get to stay  What's next  Round 1 of NAFTA: Renegotiation started Wednesday and will conclude Sunday. The next round will be in Mexico, and more rounds are expected after that. Talks began after U.S. officials expressed deep disappointment in NAFTA while Canadian and Mexican officials touted the agreement's successes.   Quest's Profitable Moment: Sign up to receive the newsletter in your inbox every Thursday  Janet Yellen's fate: With six months left in her term, it's still unclear if President Trump will reappoint Yellen to another term as Chair of the Federal Reserve. It's also unknown whether Yellen even wants another term. She heads to the famous Jackson Hole Symposium next week, where she'll likely speak about the U.S. economy and monetary policy.  
Charlottesville forces Silicon Valley to confront its approach to free speech
Following last weekend's violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, many tech companies have been thrust into a debate over free speech and social responsibility. One tech company after another has taken steps to effectively choke off white supremacist groups after a violent rally at the University of Virginia.  Some have said they have an obligation to take down content that incites violence. Others have simply suggested that hateful or racist behavior violates their community standards.  The moves have left some hate groups and websites in internet limbo, unable to communicate, move money or find a home online.  GoDaddy and Google (GOOGL, Tech30) each stopped hosting the neo-Nazi website The Daily Stormer after it published a derogatory story about Heather Heyer, who was killed while protesting against the rally. Facebook (FB, Tech30) has taken down a number of white supremacist Facebook Groups and pulled the event page for Saturday's rally after it became clear it was violent.  Dating apps have taken action: Bumble said it's partnering with the Anti-Defamation League to ban hate on its app; OKCupid said it was alerted that a white supremacist was using its platform and has since banned him for life.  On the payments side, PayPal has been cracking down on white supremacist accounts, and GoFundMe is banning crowdfunding campaigns for the man who alleged plowed his car into the crowd killing Heyer. Apple (AAPL, Tech30) has reportedly cut off payments to websites selling Nazi-themed merchandise.  This approach even had consequences offline. Airbnb removed users who were connected with the rally and planned to stay at several of its home rentals. And an Uber driver in Charlottesville kicked out a group of prominent white nationalists from her car. The driver was then "honored" at Uber's all-hands meeting on Tuesday, according to a spokesperson.  Tech companies have long faced pressure to do more to address hate and harassment online.  But this week's sudden and aggressive crack down reignites concerns about the industry's immense power to decide who does and doesn't have a place on the internet.  Related: Hate groups on Facebook: Why some get to stay  "To me, the question is never about whether white supremacists deserve a platform, but who gets to decide that?" says Jillian York, director for International Freedom of Expression at the Electronic Frontier Foundation.  As private companies, the Facebooks and Googles of the world are free to determine who uses their products. Typically, however, they've tried to cultivate the image of being neutral and unbiased platforms by relying on artificial intelligence and user feedback to flag offensive content.  At a more fundamental level, some tech companies were built by teams who strongly believed in free speech. One former Google employee told CNN Tech the company was reluctant to remove hate speech from its Blogger platform in the mid-2000s because of concerns it amounted to censorship.  The industry has been forced to evolve its approach in recent years amid greater media and regulatory scrutiny over online harassment and the spread of terrorist content from groups like ISIS.  York says "most of the world's governments and nearly all Silicon Valley companies" decided that terrorists "don't get speech rights." Now she says the tech industry is at risk of being seen as unilaterally deciding the same to be true for Nazis and white supremacists.  By asserting more control over offensive content, tech companies may find themselves on a slippery slope. They could face redoubled efforts from media outlets and governments to take down other controversial posts in the future.  Related: Neo-Nazi website loses protection from key tech firm  Matthew Prince, CEO of internet firm Cloudfare, wrestled with these concerns in an unusually candid blog post Wednesday after his company terminated The Daily Stormer's account.  "After today, make no mistake," Prince said, "it will be a little bit harder for us to argue against a government somewhere pressuring us into taking down a site they don't like."  Meanwhile, a new cottage industry of fringe copycat startups has gained attention for catering to those who aren't welcome on more mainstream platforms. But even some of these sites are starting to be more discerning.  Discord, a Skype and chat service popular with the alt-right, said this week it was shutting down accounts associated with the Charlottesville events. "We will continue to take action against white supremacy, Nazi ideology, and all forms of hate," the company said in a statement.  -- CNN Tech's Heather Kelly and Kaya Yurieff contributed to this report.  
Your CNN MoneyStream daily brief
Tim Cook has denounced President Trump's remarks on the deadly violence in Charlottesville. In an email to employees Wednesday night, Cook plainly said, "I disagree with the president and others who believe that there is a moral equivalence between white supremacists and Nazis, and those who oppose them by standing up for human rights."  "Equating the two runs counter to our ideals as Americans."  Cook also announced that Apple (AAPL, Tech30) would go a step further, donating $1 million to both the nonprofits Southern Poverty Law Center and Anti-Defamation League.  Additionally, the company will also match gifts that Apple employees give to select human rights organizations and will give iTunes users a way to donate directly to the Southern Poverty Law Center.  Another tech firm abandons the Daily Stormer.  The neo-Nazi website is now more vulnerable to hackers after Cloudflare announced it would no longer protect its site from crippling denial of service attacks.  Cloudflare CEO Matthew Prince explained his decision in a blog post Wednesday, saying that those at the Daily Stormer had falsely "made the claim that we were secretly supporters of their ideology."  "We've taken measures to ensure that they cannot sign up for Cloudflare's services ever again," wrote Prince.  Google and GoDaddy had also cut ties with the Daily Stormer this week. The site temporarily scored a Russian domain that was also later suspended.  Looks like HBO was hacked again.  Several of the HBO's Twitter and Facebook accounts appeared to have been breached overnight when posts showed up attributed to anonymous hacking group OurMine. HBO investigating hack of its Twitter accounts https://t.co/MaPQ3RbsV9 pic.twitter.com/pKazRutN05  Some of the posts were taken down shortly afterward. It's unclear whether the incident has anything to do with the recent leaks of HBO's "Game of Thrones" episodes.  HBO has told NBC News it's "investigating."  Nope, still no Powerball winners.  No one got lucky Wednesday night -- propelling the Powerball jackpot to $510 million.  That'd be the 8th largest U.S. lottery prize of all time, according to CNNMoney's Jackie Wattles.  But don't get your hopes up too high -- the odds of picking six winning numbers are about one in 292 million.  The next Powerball drawing is on Saturday.  Tip of the Day  Are you really ready to retire? Ask yourself these five questions to make sure you're financially -- and socially -- prepared. 
