Apple's Tim Cook hopes China will ease VPN restrictions
Apple's CEO says he hopes China's intensified crackdown on internet access is only temporary. Tim Cook on Tuesday addressed the controversy over his company's recent removal of some virtual private network (VPN) apps from its China App Store, reiterating that the U.S. company was simply complying with Chinese regulations.  "We're hopeful that over time the restrictions we're seeing are lessened, because innovation really requires freedom to collaborate and communicate," Cook said during Apple's (AAPL, Tech30) latest earnings call.  "We believe in engaging with governments even when we disagree," he said.  Related: Apple is removing VPN apps that allow users to skirt China's Great Firewall  China has in recent months strengthened its massive internet censorship apparatus, which is often referred to as the Great Firewall. It has partially blocked popular messaging apps like WhatsApp and stepped up its censorship of images deemed politically sensitive.  Earlier in the year, Chinese authorities announced a widening crackdown on VPNs, which use encryption to bypass online filters -- a move they defended last week by saying it is aimed at "cleaning" the internet.  Apple's decision to remove the VPN apps in China was widely criticized, with many saying it was aiding and abetting Chinese censorship. ExpressVPN, one of the popular apps that was delisted, said in a blog post that it was "disappointed" and "troubled" by the tech giant's decision.  But Cook defended the move, saying it was no different to Apple's compliance with local regulations in all its markets.  "We would obviously rather not remove the apps, but like we do in other countries we follow the law wherever we do business," he said.   Related: Russia bans VPNs to stop users from looking at censored sites   He also disputed comparisons made by some critics between Apple's treatment of Chinese government requests and its refusal last year to help U.S. authorities unlock the phone of one of the perpetrators of the San Bernardino terrorist attack.  "In the case of the U.S., the law in the U.S. supported us. It was very clear," Cook said. "In the case of China, the law is very clear there ... We have to abide by them in both cases. That doesn't mean that we don't state our point of view in the appropriate way."  Related: FBI says it has cracked terrorist's iPhone without Apple's help  This is not the first time Apple has drawn criticism for doing the Chinese government's bidding. The company removed multiple apps belonging to the New York Times from the App Store in China in December.  It has also been at the receiving end of Chinese censorship, with its iBooks and iTunes Movie services shut down last year.  The latest controversy comes as Apple faces a continuing decline in sales in China, its biggest overseas market. The company's revenue from the Greater China region in the latest quarter fell 10% from a year earlier.  Apple is not the only big American tech firm following Chinese censors' orders.  Customers of Amazon's (AMZN, Tech30) cloud computing service in the country have recently been warned to immediately stop using tools that bypass the Great Firewall and websites that are not registered with the Chinese government.  Related: Amazon brings Prime to China  "We could receive a notice from regulators at any time asking us to shut down such services," said a message sent out Monday by Beijing Sinnet Technology, the Chinese partner of Amazon Web Services.  "If you have any of the [services], please stop in case your business is affected," said the message, which was provided to CNN by one of the companies' clients.  Amazon and Sinnet did not immediately respond to requests for comment.  -- Serenitie Wang contributed to this report 
Apple stock pops on optimism for iPhone 8 sales
Apple just gave investors reason to hope that the next iPhone launch is on track. Apple (AAPL, Tech30) said Tuesday it expects sales for its fourth quarter, which ends in September, to come in as high as $52 billion, more than analysts had expected.  That estimate suggests Apple is likely to launch its newest iPhone model -- expected to be called the iPhone 8 -- in September, despite earlier rumors of a possible delay.  The guidance "implies some kind of September iPhone launch," Neil Cybart, an analyst who covers Apple for Above Avalon, wrote in a tweet after the earnings report.  Apple stock popped 6% in after hours trading Tuesday following the earnings report, effectively adding nearly $50 billion to its market cap. The rally continued Wednesday, with shares rising 5% in early trading.  Related: Trump says Apple to build "3 big plants, beautiful plants" in US  The company is expected to overhaul its smartphone lineup in September as it marks the iPhone's tenth anniversary. There are reports Apple could launch three iPhone models, one of which is expected to have a four-digit price tag.  Some of the rumored features include no physical home button, a bezel-less screen design and a facial recognition system.  This would mark Apple's biggest iPhone refresh since the iPhone 6 was released in 2016, so it has the potential to trigger a big wave of upgrades and new purchases.  Heading into the earnings report, there were concerns that all the hype for the new iPhones was driving down sales of Apple's existing smartphones more than usual.  "We do think that based on the amount of rumors... there is some pause in our current numbers," Apple CEO Tim Cook said on a conference call with analysts Tuesday.  Related: The iPhone turns 10: Insiders look back  But he framed any slowdown now as an opportunity for better sales with the next model.  "Where that effects us in the short term, even though we had great results, probably bodes well [for] later on," Cook said.  Apple sold 41 million iPhones during the June quarter, up 2% from the same period a year earlier. Apple also saw a 15% spike in the number of iPads sold, after several quarters of declines.  That helped Apple hit $45 billion in sales for the quarter, up 7% from a year earlier. It also grew profits by 17%.  Apple now has a cash pile of $261.5 billion, up from $231.5 billion a year ago. The vast majority of that is held overseas, but that could change if the Trump administration passes tax reform.  Related: Apple's Tim Cook: 'Don't listen to trolls, and for God's sake don't become one'  On the call, Cook largely dodged a question about another pressing political issue: President Trump's recent claim that Apple had "promised" to build "three big plants, beautiful plants" in the U.S.  "About two-thirds of our total employee base is in the U.S., despite only a third of our revenues being here," Cook said. "We'll have some things that we'll say about that later in the year." 
Apple earnings; Dow 22,000 in sight; Dollar slumps
1. All eyes on Apple: The main tech event of earnings season is rapidly approaching. Investors will turn their attention to Apple (AAPL, Tech30) results after the closing bell on Tuesday. The tech giant had a relatively quiet second quarter, and it is now preparing for new product announcements in the fall.  Apple is expected to debut a new iPhone later this year. Investors will be keen to see how many of the devices it sold in the second quarter after sales dipped slightly to 51 million in the first three months of the year.  Apple shares have surged by 28% since the start of the year.  2. More earnings: Pfizer (PFE), Phillips 66 (PSX), Sprint (S), Thomson Reuters (TRI), Under Armour (UAA) and Xerox (XRX) will release earnings before the U.S. open.  Allstate (ALL), Denny's (DENN), Hanesbrands (HBI), Herbalife (HLF) and Papa John's (PZZA) are set to publish results after the close.  BP (BP), Honda (HMC) and Sony (SNE) led the international contingent reporting earnings on Tuesday.  Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!  3. Waiting for Dow 22,000: The Dow Jones industrial average hit another record high on Monday.  It closed just short of the 22,000 point level at 21,891.  U.S. stock futures are pointing up and European markets are higher in early trading.  Major Asian markets ended the day with positive results.  4. Auto sales slump?: Ford (F), General Motors (GM), Toyota (TM) and the other major automakers will post their July sales totals throughout the day on Tuesday. Analysts expect sales to have dipped during the month.  5. Market movers -- U.S. dollar, Rolls Royce: The U.S. dollar was trading around its lowest level in more a year on Tuesday against a basket of major currencies.  The dollar rallied after President Trump was voted into office in November and peaked a few weeks before his inauguration. It's been declining since then because of worries over his ability to move forward on issues like tax reform and health care reform.  The dollar's move down has accelerated over the past month.  Shares in engine-maker Rolls-Royce (RYCEF) surged by about 10% in London after the firm reported stronger sales and profits in the first half of the year.  Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news  6. Coming this week:  Tuesday -- Earnings from Apple (AAPL, Tech30); Auto companies release July sales data Wednesday -- Earnings from CNN parent company Time Warner (TWX), Molson Coors Brewing (TAP) and Tesla (TSLA); Germany's auto industry holds a 'diesel summit'  Thursday -- Earnings from Weight Watchers, (WTW) Hyatt Hotels (H), Yum Brands (YUM), GoPro (GPRO, Tech30) and Kraft Heinz (KHC) Friday -- U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics releases monthly jobs and unemployment report 
