Who is Google CEO Sundar Pichai?
When Sundar Pichai was named Google CEO in 2015, his predecessor said Pichai would work to "stretch boundaries" for the company's products. But this week, Pichai had a different challenge: setting boundaries for the company's employees.  On Monday, Pichai cut his family vacation overseas short to address an anti-diversity memo from a Google (GOOGL, Tech30) employee that went viral among staffers over the weekend. The memo argued women are biologically unfit for tech roles.  In an email to Google employees Monday night, Pichai condemned parts of the memo as "offensive" and violated the company's Code of Conduct.  "Our job is to build great products for users that make a difference in their lives," Pichai wrote. "To suggest a group of our colleagues have traits that make them less biologically suited to that work is offensive and not OK."  With that email, Pichai earned praise from many in the industry. Ellen Pao, who fought a high-profile gender bias case against her former venture capital firm, praised Pichai for making "the right call."  But Pichai also plunged himself into a divisive debate raging inside Google over free speech and a culture war raging outside the company.  Related: Google CEO: Anti-diversity memo was 'offensive and not OK'  The front page of Breitbart, a far-right website, was flooded with stories about the Google incident overnight Monday, including one that said the memo's author was being punished for "criticizing left-wing intolerance." On Twitter, some described Pichai's actions as "totalitarian."  The controversy offers perhaps the biggest test yet for Pichai's leadership.  He took over as Google's CEO two years ago this month amid a corporate restructuring. Larry Page, Google's cofounder and previous CEO, became CEO of Google's newly created parent company, Alphabet.  Pichai may not be as well known as Google's founders. He isn't necessarily a household name in the mold of other tech titans like Facebook (FB, Tech30) CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) CEO Jeff Bezos and Apple (AAPL, Tech30) CEO Tim Cook. But as Google's top exec, he wields a tremendous amount of influence.  Pichai oversees a company with tens of thousands of employees, tens of billions in revenue and products that reach billions (yes, with an "s") of users. Google also has an outsized influence on corporate culture.  Pichai, born in India, rotated through a number of executive positions Google over the course of a decade. He helped build Chrome into a top web browser. He oversaw Android, which now has two billion monthly users. Pichai eventually took charge of all software products.  Related: Sexual harassment in tech: Women tell their stories  In his time as Google CEO, he has pushed the company deeper into hardware, cloud computing and artificial intelligence. Some of these efforts are beginning to pay off in helping Google make money beyond advertising.  But technical innovation is only one part of Pichai's role now. He must also balance a company culture that prizes free speech with the reality that the entire tech industry is under a microscope right now for a lack of diversity and mistreating women.  If that's not enough, Pichai faces a more sensitive political landscape than either of his two predecessors.  Pichai took over as CEO shortly after President Trump launched his campaign. Since then, Pichai has weighed in on political issues like Trump's travel ban, withdrawal from the Paris Agreement, and the proposed transgender military ban. 
This startup is cashing in on our forgetfulness
Richard Beddingfield came home after a skiing trip in Colorado when he couldn't find his prescription sunglasses. He'd lost them before, but this last time, he snuck a small Bluetooth tracker called Tile inside the case.  Back home in Middleton, Wisconsin, he used the corresponding app to reveal the glasses' last known location: the Denver International Airport. (When another Tile user has the app running and passes by your missing item, you're automatically notified of its location).  But the next day, Beddingfield was alerted that his glasses were spotted in other cities like San Diego and Seattle.  "I wasn't sure what was going on," Beddingfield, a 38-year-old anesthesiologist, told CNN Tech. "My first thought was that someone stole the glasses."   His sunglasses made their way to eight different cities before the flight crew was contacted at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport and found them wedged under his original seat on the plane.  Related: The best gadgets for your next business trip  Beddingfield is not alone in misplacing personal items. Americans spend 2.5 days each year searching for lost items, and households collectively spend $2.7 billion each year replacing them, according to a recent survey conducted on behalf of Pixie Technology, a location tracking device company.  Not surprisingly, the most commonly misplaced items include TV remotes, phones, car keys and shoes.  Tile, which launched on Kickstarter in 2013, has tapped into this market with its Bluetooth tracking devices.  In 2016, the company's revenue more than doubled year-over-year, exceeding $100 million. Tile has users in more than 230 countries and territories -- and over two million items are found each day using the app.  If users are within Bluetooth range of their missing item, they can hit "Find" and the Tile will ring. Otherwise, they can mark the item as lost and see its latest location on a map.  The startup on Tuesday launched two new Bluetooth trackers, the Tile Sport and Tile Style. Both trackers, which cost $35 each, feature louder audio and a 200-foot Bluetooth range, double the capability of previous models.  But Tile isn't the only company banking on our forgetfulness.  TrackR also makes slim devices that can fit into wallets or attach to items. Other startups like Chipolo, Pixie and Pebblebee have similar products.  Meanwhile, Apple (AAPL, Tech30) also has its own app built into iOS -- Find My iPhone -- that allows users to locate their missing phone, iPod or Mac.  Frank Gillett, a principal analyst at Forrester, told CNN Tech there's a big market for these types of devices, but it's still early on in the adoption cycle.  "People have to be willing to take on the extra expense, download and fiddle with an app and embrace a new thing," he said. "Learning that behavior is somewhat generational and takes time."  Gillett also said consumers are effectively in a subscription relationship with Tile as they have to replace the devices every year due to battery life.  Related: Hackable door locks? Senators want to make smart gadgets more secure  However, Tile -- like others in the industry -- is looking beyond just attaching a Bluetooth tracker to a set of car keys. Tile cofounder and CEO Mike Farley sees a future where "everything that moves" will be location enabled, such as watches, cars, clothing and medical devices.  It's already partnered with companies like Jaguar Land Rover to integrate Tiles into the Land Rover Discovery Sport's entertainment system.  Using the automaker's app, drivers can create a list of "Tile essentials," or items they don't want to leave without like a gym bag. If that item is missing from the car, a notification will pop up on the vehicle's touchscreen.  Tile has also worked with companies such as Blunt to make a Bluetooth-trackable umbrella and Away on a location-enabled luggage tag.  Although more products may come with embedded tracking technology in the future, experts like Chuck Sabin -- senior director of business strategy and planning at Bluetooth Special Interest Group -- believe there will still be a place for standalone devices.  "There's always going to be things or devices that people may want to track that will never have a chip in them [like a pet]. That's where the standalone product will play a role," Sabin said. 
Dow's nine days of records finally ends
The red-hot Dow has finally cooled off a bit. After nine straight days of record highs, the Dow dipped 33 points on Tuesday. Wall Street was on track to extend that streak, but stocks retreated after President Trump promised "fire and fury" if North Korea makes any more threats against the United States.  Any gain on Tuesday would have pushed the streak of records to 10, something that has only happened four other times since the Dow was established in 1896, according to Bespoke Investment Group.  The record for consecutive records is 12. It was set in January 1987, months before the Black Monday crash, and tied in February, shortly after President Trump took office.  As impressive as that is, the Dow was only up about 400 points, or 1.8%, during its recent string of records. And the broader S&P 500 has lost ground on four of those record Dow days.  Related: The stock market hasn't been this calm since 1996  In other words, the market isn't exactly going straight up. CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index is sitting in "greed" mode, which is actually down from "extreme greed" a year ago.  Nonetheless, the Dow has surged about 3,800 points since Trump's victory in November.  In recent months, Wall Street has managed to shrug off turmoil in the Trump administration and the president's failure to get his economic agenda through Congress. Instead, the market has been carried to new heights by strong corporate profits from the likes of Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Boeing (BA) and McDonald's (MCD).   Wall Street is also feeling good about the economy. The unemployment rate dipped in July to a 16-year low of 4.3%, and employers have added more than 1 million jobs since Trump took office. Economic growth doubled to 2.6% during the second quarter.  The Federal Reserve has promised to raise interest rates at just a gradual pace to avoid disrupting the recovery or the markets.  Evidently, many investors believe the market will do just fine even if Trump fails to deliver on his promise of "massive" tax cuts.  Still, it could be healthy for the market to take a breather after all these records. The S&P 500 hasn't suffered a downturn of 5% or more in 406 days, the longest streak since May 1996.  Challenges may loom for the market in the coming weeks. Congress needs to raise the debt ceiling to avoid a disastrous default. The Treasury Department has estimated it can meet its financial commitments for two more months. 
