Weak! The U.S. dollar has plunged on Trump's watch
President Trump regularly points to the strong stock market as proof that his economic policies are working. But what about the dramatically weaker U.S. dollar? The greenback has been shut out of the summer party on Wall Street. Just as the Dow cruised above 22,000 on Wednesday, the dollar tumbled to a 15-month low against its rival currencies.  That's not all bad: The weaker dollar has helped power stocks to record highs, and it helps American companies make money overseas.  But the conflicting messages from the currency and stock markets are dramatic, especially considering that the dollar initially spiked after Trump's victory. His promises of big tax cuts, infrastructure spending and deregulation sent it to a 14-year high in January.  Investors believed at the time that Trump, along with a Republican-controlled Congress, would finally unleash the sluggish U.S. economy and force the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates more aggressively.  But Trump's legislative failures, combined with rejuvenated economic growth in Europe, have dealt a powerful blow to the almighty dollar. The U.S. dollar index, which measures the American currency against its rivals, has plunged 10% since peaking Jan. 3. The dollar is in its first five-month losing streak since 2011.   While the stock market has been driven to record highs by strong corporate earnings, the currency market seems fed up with Trump's stumbles.  The "White House soap opera" has fueled the dollar's decline, according to Kit Juckes, a macro strategist at Societe Generale.  "Confidence in the U.S. administration's ability to deliver growth-boosting fiscal policies is at rock bottom," Juckes wrote in a report this week.  Related: The stock market hasn't been this calm since 1996  Lukman Otunuga, a research analyst at FXTM, similarly blamed the "battered dollar" on "political drama in Washington." He wrote in a report that the turmoil is raising doubts about Trump's ability to keep his economic promises.  It's not all about the United States, though. The dollar index is heavily weighted toward the euro, which has been rallying. The economic rebound in Europe and easing worries about the breakup of the eurozone lifted the euro to a two-and-a-half-year high against the dollar on Wednesday.  Even as Trump repeatedly brags about the stock market -- he tweeted about Dow 22,000 before it even happened -- he has said little about the dollar's slide. But he has dropped hints suggesting he isn't losing sleep over what the currency market thinks about him.  "I like a dollar that's not too strong," Trump recently told The Wall Street Journal, according to a leaked transcript posted this week by Politico.  "Frankly, other than the fact that it sounds good, bad things happen with a strong dollar," Trump told the Journal.  Related: What big fat bubble? Trump cheers Dow 22,000  Of course, it's not black and white. There are positive and negative consequences of a weaker dollar.  The U.S. can compete better overseas: Earlier this year, the dollar was so high that it threatened to dent corporate profits. When the dollar is strong, products that are priced in dollars and sold overseas are more expensive for foreign customers. A strong dollar also hurts when foreign profits are converted back to the U.S. currency at a lower value.  Trump knows that a too-strong dollar would hurt his efforts to rejuvenate U.S. factories by boosting exports.  Dow stocks love it: Most members of the 30-stock Dow make a big chunk of their money overseas. That means they should enjoy fatter profits thanks to the weaker dollar. The Dow's three best-performing stocks this year -- Boeing (BA), Apple (AAPL, Tech30) and Visa (V) -- rely on the United States for less than 55% of their total revenue.  This helps explain why the Dow is up three times as much as the Russell 2000, which is home to smaller companies that are more U.S.-focused.  What about that trip to Europe? On the other hand, you might be bummed if you booked a flight to Paris in January hoping to take advantage of the strong dollar. Americans traveling overseas will get less when they convert their dollars. One euro now costs $1.19. That's a big difference from January, when it only cost $1.03.  Sticker shock for big importers: Likewise, companies that ship supplies in from overseas will have to pay more than a year ago. The dollar may still be strong overall, but the shift could hurt those companies' profits.  Signal of sluggish growth: As a candidate, Trump promised to speed up the U.S. economy to 4% annual growth. The weaker dollar signals that investors don't believe he's going to deliver on that promise any time soon. 
The stock market hasn't been this calm since 1996
Mark Zuckerberg was 12 years old the last time the stock market was this calm. The S&P 500 hasn't suffered a downturn of 5% or more since June 26, 2016. That's 402 calendar days -- the longest streak since May 1996, according to Bespoke Investment Group.  It's yet another sign of a hot market. The Dow has climbed more than 3,600 points since President Trump's election, and this week it passed 22,000 for the first time. Wall Street has been rocked by only a few single-day sell-offs and no prolonged slumps.  The rally has been steady, not just long. The closely watched VIX (VIX) volatility index touched an all-time low last week.  The lack of market craziness is a relief to many Americans, but some are wondering whether Wall Street is due for a drop. They worry that the market has become a little too quiet -- especially considering the relentless noise from Washington and global hot spots like North Korea.  "Markets are rarely ever this calm for long," Ryan Detrick, senior market strategist at LPL Financial, wrote in a report.  Market pullbacks can be healthy, preventing stocks from overheating and allowing investors on the sidelines an opportunity to get in.  Kristina Hooper, global market strategist at Invesco, compared this summer's geopolitical events to paper cuts.  "Individually, the market can brush them off. But a significant accumulation of paper cuts over a short period of time might cause investors to suffer," Hooper wrote in a recent report.  Related: What big fat bubble? Trump cheers as Dow hits 22,000  The streak of 402 days without a 5% pullback in the S&P 500 is the seventh longest in history, according to Bespoke Investment Group. No wonder CNNMoney's Fear & Greed index of market sentiment is sitting comfortably in "greed" mode.  The S&P 500 would have to go 191 more days without into a downturn -- February of next year -- to break the all-time record, set in 1959.  The calendar may be working against Wall Street. August can be a scary month. On one day in August 2015, the Dow plunged 1,000 points, and in August 2011, when America's credit rating was downgraded.  An Asian financial crisis hammered the market in August 1997, and the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management imploded in August 1998. August and September are the only two months to average a stock decline since 1980, according to LPL Financial.  Related: Trump is playing with fire by obsessing over stocks  This August will have its obstacles. The Trump administration and North Korea are saber-rattling, with U.S.-China relations caught in the middle. Congress needs to raise the debt ceiling to avoid a disastrous default. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin estimates the government can meet its financial commitments for two more months.  Wall Street hasn't been spooked by any of this -- so far.  "Investors would be wise not to extrapolate this calm," said David Lafferty, chief market strategist at Natisix Global Asset Management.  So why is the market so calm?  Many analysts believe that extremely low interest rates and bond purchases by global central banks have suppressed market turbulence. The Federal Reserve is raising interest rates, but officials have emphasized they will do this gradually, not to upset the economy or markets.  The U.S. economy isn't booming, but it's growing steadily, and the unemployment rate is just 4.4%. Wall Street doesn't fear a recession, nor ultra-fast growth that could force the Fed to end the easy money party.  Global growth has also accelerated, led by strength out of Europe. This Goldilocks environment continues to support healthy corporate profits from the likes of Apple (AAPL, Tech30), McDonald's (MCD), Boeing (BA) and Facebook (FB, Tech30).  All that explains why LPL's Detrick believes investors shouldn't fear the next pullback.  "We would use any pullback as an opportunity to add to positions," he said. 
Dow tops 22,000; Bank of England rate decision; Earnings bonanza
1. Dow's new high: The Dow Jones industrial average broke through the 22,000 points level for the first time ever on Wednesday. A surge in Apple (AAPL, Tech30) stock pushed the index past the milestone right after the opening bell. The average is up more than 20% since Trump's victory last November.  CNNMoney's Fear & Greed index of market sentiment is firmly in "greed" mode, suggesting the gains could continue.  While the initial rally was fueled by the Trump agenda, it's now being kept afloat by strong earnings and a steady U.S. economy.  2. U.K. economy health check: The Bank of England will announce its latest interest rate decision on Thursday. It will also release its quarterly inflation report, offering a detailed picture of the British economy.  The bank held rates at a record low of 0.25% at its last meeting in June, but the vote was split with three of the bank's eight policymakers backing a rate hike.  The U.K. economy has slowed down this year because of uncertainty over the country's exit from the European Union. Meanwhile, a sharp drop in the value of the pound has pushed inflation higher, putting pressure on consumers.  3. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were lower on Thursday.  The Dow Jones industrial average gained 0.2% on Wednesday, while the S&P 500 added 0.1% and the Nasdaq closed flat.  European markets opened mostly down on Thursday. Indexes in Asia also suffered losses.  Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!  4. Stock market movers -- Wyndham Worldwide, Hologic: Shares in Wyndham Worldwide (WYN) were up almost 5% in extended trading after the company announced it would spin off its hotel business. It owns the Ramada and Days Inn brands.  Hologic Inc (HOLX) slipped 5% in extended trading after the manufacturer of health diagnostic products reported a small dip in its profit.  5. Earnings and economics: Aetna (AET), AMC Networks (AMCX), Avon Products (AVP), Kellogg (K), Marriott Vacations (VAC), and Yum! Brands (YUM) are among the hundreds of companies to report earnings before the open.  GoPro (GPRO, Tech30), Kraft Heinz (KHC), Shake Shack (SHAK), Viacom (VIAB), Weight Watchers (WTW) and Western Union (WU) will follow after the close.  The Czech National Bank will announce an interest rate decision at 8:15 a.m. ET.  Analysts say there's a decent chance the central bank will hike rates for the first time in almost a decade -- perhaps signaling the beginning of the end of ultra-low rates in Europe.  Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news  6. Coming this week:  Thursday -- Earnings from Weight Watchers, (WTW) Hyatt Hotels (H), Yum Brands (YUM), GoPro (GPRO, Tech30) and Kraft Heinz (KHC) Friday -- U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics releases monthly jobs and unemployment report 
