Cloudflare CEO questions his decision to terminate neo-Nazi website
A little known tech company is at the center of a debate over power on the internet. Cloudflare, a security firm that provides protection from cyberattacks and helps websites perform faster, removed a neo-Nazi website, The Daily Stormer, from its network last week. The move left the website vulnerable to hackers by taking away its security protection.  But Matthew Prince, cofounder and CEO of Cloudflare, is now questioning whether that decision was the right one.  In an interview with CNN's Paula Newton on "Quest Means Business" Thursday, Prince said the removal sparked a necessary conversation about censorship online.  "You win a lot of points for firing Nazis from using your service," Prince said. "But it sets a dangerous precedent when a company that most of your viewers have never heard of is effectively deciding what can and cannot be on the internet."  Ten percent of all internet requests pass through Cloudflare's network, but unlike Facebook or Google products you see all the time, Cloudflare is part of the internet's infrastructure. It's invisible but important.  Prince acknowledged that the internet community might not be comfortable with the notion that an obscure company has the power to censor what's online.  Offensive and harmful internet content is by no means new, but tech companies are only just starting to confront the role they've played helping to distribute and support that content. Twitter, for example, plays whack-a-mole with some harassers and keeps other offensive tweets online.   Related: Neo-Nazi website loses protection from key tech firm  The Daily Stormer site was also dumped by web-hosting services GoDaddy (GDDY) and Google (GOOG) after it published a derogatory story about Heather Heyer, who was killed while protesting against a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia on August 12.  Following the violence in Charlottesville, many tech companies cracked down on hate groups.  Facebook (FB, Tech30) removed a number of white supremacist groups; PayPal (PYPL, Tech30) blocked payments to white supremacist accounts; GoFundMe banned crowdfunding campaigns for the driver who killed Heyer; Apple (AAPL, Tech30) reportedly blocked payments to websites selling Nazi-themed goods; and Airbnb kicked off users who were associated with the Charlottesville rally.  The Daily Stormer moved its content to a dark web website last week that's only accessible through Tor software.  Related: Charlottesville forces Silicon Valley to confront its approach to free speech  The decision to drop The Daily Stormer is controversial -- and one Prince didn't take lightly. His interview with CNN's Newton is the latest in a string of public comments he's made about whether he did the right thing.  Earlier this week he wrote an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal, echoing the concerns he first outlined in a blog post.  "When standing up to government requests or angry Twitter demands to silence unpopular speech, it was powerful to be able to say we'd never terminated a customer due to political pressure," he wrote in the WSJ. "I'm not sure we can say that anymore."  According to the nonprofit Electronic Frontier Foundation, censoring neo-Nazi content is a "dangerous moment" for the internet and expression online.  "People cheering for companies who have censored content in recent weeks may soon find the same tactic used against causes they love," executive director Cindy Cohn wrote this week. "We must be careful about what we are asking these companies to do and carefully review the processes they use to do it."  The organization has worked on a number of cases where big corporations and government officials have asked companies to remove content they didn't like, effectively silencing artists, activists, and others. Some people now applauding the censorship may one day be censored, Cohn said.  Prince told CNN there should be a public debate involving companies, government, and users about who is responsible for making censorship decisions.  He asked: Is it companies like a website's host? The platform it uses? Or the content creators themselves? 
Amazon: We're lowering Whole Foods prices on Monday
Alexa, lower the prices. Amazon said Thursday that its takeover of Whole Foods (WFM) will close on Monday, and its first order of business will be to make some items more affordable, according to a release.  "Whole Foods Market will offer lower prices starting Monday on a selection of best-selling grocery staples across its stores, with more to come," the company said in a statement.  Items that will be marked down on Monday include organic avocados, organic brown eggs, organic salmon, almond butter, organic apples and organic rotisserie chicken. Amazon said it'll keep the markdowns coming, and that Amazon Prime members will get additional discounts at Whole Foods.  "Everybody should be able to eat Whole Foods Market quality -- we will lower prices without compromising Whole Foods Market's long-held commitment to the highest standards," Jeff Wilke, CEO of Amazon Worldwide Consumer, said in a statement.  Related: Amazon-Whole Foods merger gets green light from U.S. government  That's good news for Whole Foods critics, who have long bemoaned the grocery store's high prices.  Its prices even sparked a legal controversy in 2015 when New York City's Department of Consumer Affairs accused Whole Foods of "systematic overcharging for pre-packaged foods," like sliced fruit and sandwiches. The chain paid $500,000 in fines to settle the matter. The city's inspectors called it the worst case of mislabeling they had seen in their careers.  And there was more bad press when a photograph of a $6 bottle of "asparagus water" at a California store went viral. The beverage appeared to contain nothing but several asparagus stalks soaking in water. Whole Foods later pulled the beverage and said it was prepared incorrectly.  Comedian John Oliver, host of HBO's "Last Week Tonight," ridiculed Whole Food's pricing in a memorable 2015 sketch. (HBO, like CNN, is owned by Time Warner.)  Related: Echo Dots briefly sold for free on Friday  The segment featured parody ads for items including tilapia wearing yoga pants for $84.99, a pomegranate listening to NPR for $64.99 and a block of ice with an avocado balanced on top for $25.99.  Oliver may have felt a small personal victory on Thursday. Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) specifically said "organic tilapia" is among the items that will be marked down on Monday. (Note: It's never been sold with yoga pants.)  Some other updates Amazon says it has in store:  -- Amazon lockers -- where customers can pick up or send back items purchased on Amazon.com -- will pop up in "select" Whole Foods stores.  -- Whole Foods-brand products will now be available through Amazon.com and other Prime platforms, such as Prime Now, the same-day delivery service available in some markets. The store's brands include the Whole Foods label, 365, Whole Paws and Whole Catch.  --CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie and Paul La Monica contributed to this report. 
Tim Cook: Apple will invest $1.3 billion in Iowa
Apple will build a new data center in America's heartland. CEO Tim Cook made the announcement from Des Moines, Iowa on Thursday. The company plans to build a $1.3 billion facility in Waukee, which is about 20 minutes outside the state's capital.  The project is expected to create 50 permanent jobs. Cook said the facility, which will run entirely on renewable energy, will help power Apple's App Store.  "This new data center will play a very important role in the App Store's continued success. And as the App Store grows, we look forward to growing in Iowa," Cook said.  Related: Apple is on the hunt for original TV shows  State and local authorities have collectively approved roughly $208 million in tax incentives for the project.  It's common for states to offer money to businesses in order to secure big investments. But the price tag of such packages can be controversial. The Wisconsin state legislature is currently debating whether to approve a whopping $3 billion in incentives for a Foxconn plant that could create between 3,000 and 13,000 jobs.  In Iowa, Apple is expected to start construction early next year, and the center should be up and running by 2020.  Related: Here's where Foxconn's deal to create 13,000 jobs in Wisconsin stands  Cook said Apple will also invest up to $100 million in a public improvement fund focused on development and infrastructure in Waukee.  The decision was lauded by Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds, a Republican.  "For the past 20 months, Apple has been searching for the perfect location, and I am so proud to say they found it right here in Iowa," she said.  Apple already has data centers in California, Oregon, Nevada and North Carolina.  -- CNNMoney's Seth Fiegerman contributed to this report. 
Consumers splurge on bling -- but not bacon
Consumers may not be buying brand name PB&J, bacon or SPAM, but they're shelling out for diamond rings, necklaces and lots of clothes. Tiffany & Co. on Thursday reported strong earnings and sales. The legendary jewelry retailer also said that it was no longer being hurt by crowds of people flocking to (but not going in) its Big Apple store on 5th Avenue, located right by Trump Tower.  The company said there was "no disruptive effect from the New York flagship store" like there was shortly after Donald Trump won the U.S. presidential election. Tiffany's stock (TIF) was flat on the news but is up more than 15% this year as sales have rebounded.  It's not just Tiffany's. People are buying expensive bling at the mall, too.  Signet, the operator of mall-based chains Kay, Jared and Zales, reported sales and profits that topped forecasts. Signet also announced it was buying R2Net, the owner of online bridal jeweler James Allen. Shares of Signet (SIG) soared more than 20%.  The healthy sales from both Tiffany and Signet provide yet another sign that Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) and Walmart  (WMT)won't completely dominate all aspects of retail. Home Depot (HD) and Best Buy (BBY) are two other traditional retailers that are thriving, for example.  Deep discount stores fare well, too. Frugal shoppers helped boost sales and profits at Dollar Tree, which also owns Family Dollar. Shares of Dollar Tree (DLTR) rose 9% on the news. Rival Dollar General (DG) was up 2%.  Related: Air ball! Nobody's buying expensive sneakers  Several apparel retailers seem to be turning things around as well. Guess? posted better than expected results after the closing bell Wednesday. So did PVH, the clothing company behind the Tommy Hilfiger and Calvin Klein brands.  Shares of Guess? (GES) surged more than 15% while PVH (PVH) was up nearly 3%.  Another clothing chain might finally become trendy again. Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF) reported sales that beat expectations Thursday morning, sending its stock up 15%.  These results also show that consumers are picking and choosing what they are spending on and that there will be winners and losers in the retail landscape.  Department stores like Macy's (M), Kohl's (KSS) and JCPenney (JCP) continue to suffer. Sears (SHLD) posted another loss Thursday and announced plans to close more Kmart locations.  And interestingly enough, some consumers appear to be pulling back on well-known brand names at the grocery store.  PB&J giant Smucker (SJM)'s showed Wall Street that even with a name like theirs, things aren't always good. Its stock plunged nearly 8% after sales fell. And Hormel (HRL), the owner of SPAM, Applegate and Skippy, was down 7% on weaker than expected results.  But consumers definitely still like to spend time in the kitchen -- even if they aren't buying products from Smucker's and Hormel.  Cookware retailer Williams-Sonoma (WSM) reported tasty earnings and sales Wednesday afternoon. Its stock rose 4% on the news. 
Judgment day looms for Samsung chief
As Samsung rolled out its latest flagship smartphone at a splashy media event in New York City, the company's de facto chief sat in a jail cell in Seoul. Lee Jae-yong, the billionaire scion of South Korea's most powerful business dynasty, is set to discover his fate Friday. A court will deliver its verdict on whether he's guilty of bribery and other corruption charges.  Dubbed the "trial of the century," Lee's case has gripped the country for months, channeling widespread discontent over the cozy ties between big business and government.  The 49-year-old executive, who's also known as Jay Y. Lee, could end up spending 12 years in prison if prosecutors get their way. But that prospect doesn't seem to be hurting Samsung's massive electronics business.  During Lee's trial, Samsung Electronics' (SSNLF) share price has hit a record high as the company posted bigger profits than Apple (AAPL, Tech30) and higher microchip revenues than Intel (INTC, Tech30). Strong sales of flashy new smartphones have also helped it move on from last year's debacle over the fire-prone Galaxy Note 7.  Related: Samsung's Galaxy Note 8 phone aims to rebuild consumer trust  The combination of corporate success and criminal allegations crops up frequently in South Korea. Collusion between powerful family-run conglomerates, known as chaebol, and the government is a longstanding problem in the country.  And South Koreans are sick of it. The corruption scandal that engulfed Lee and the country's former president, Park Geun-Hye, drove millions of protestors into the streets of Seoul last year. Park was eventually ousted and is also on trial.  But Lee's case is the focus right now. Prosecutors accuse him of bribing Park in exchange for government support for a merger that helped him tighten control over Samsung's sprawling empire. Lee is currently vice chairman of Samsung Electronics.  Lee maintains he did nothing wrong and has pleaded not guilty to the charges of bribery, perjury, concealing criminal profits, embezzlement and hiding assets overseas.   Despite the intense public interest in the trial, a request by South Korean media for the court to break with tradition and broadcast the verdict live on TV was rejected.  If Lee is convicted, he'll be following in the footsteps of many other chaebol chiefs.  "It's like a rite of passage," said David Kang, director of the University of Southern California's Korean Studies Institute. "The question will really be how long does he serve."  If the past is anything to go by, newly elected President Moon Jae-in will commute any sentence after Lee spends a short amount of time in prison, Kang predicted.  Related: South Korea's long history of light sentences for business leaders  Moon campaigned as a "clean" candidate, promising to crack down on family conglomerates.  On his first trip to the U.S. earlier this year, however, Moon was accompanied by about 50 South Korean business leaders. Among them were executives from the country's largest chaebol -- Samsung, Hyundai and SK Group.  Moon's administration "is just going to work with these companies," said Kang. "So how different is it really going to be?"  Chang Sea-jin, professor of business administration at National University of Singapore, believes things are slowly changing.  Lee's ailing father, officially still the chairman of Samsung Group, was twice sentenced to prison -- and twice pardoned. He was a commanding, charismatic leader who led the company when Korean society tolerated and even expected corporate corruption, Chang said.  "Those days are long gone," he said. When the younger Lee returns to Samsung, he will "need to adapt to reality -- cleaner society, less tolerant to corruption." 
