Apple, Inc. Reports Strong Growth
In its second quarter, Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) proved its recent return to growth won't be short-lived. Better-than-expected results, as well as growth in every one of the tech giant's product segments, highlighted a strong business with loyal customers.Headed into the upcoming launch of its 10th-anniversary iPhone, Apple's business is well-positioned for sustained growth. Not only were Apple's fiscal third-quarter results exceptional, but Apple's guidance for its fourth quarter marked strong confidence from management about the company's future.Data source: Apple's third-quarter financial results. Table source: author.Apple's overall financial results were solid. Its revenue during the quarter jumped 7%, putting the company's streak of declining revenue last year further in the past. After returning to revenue growth in the first quarter of 2017, Apple's strong third-quarter revenue growth meant the tech giant's top-line growth has accelerated for three quarters in row. Apple's earnings per share also rose during the quarter, was up 17.6% year over year.Apple's year-over-year expansion of its gross profit margin, from 38% in the year-ago quarter to 38.5% in Q3, was another good sign for investors. The metric is important for Apple, as it highlights the company's ability to charge premium prices and to leverage its economies of scale.Both Apple's revenue and gross profit margin were at the high end of management's guidance range for the quarter.Every one of Apple's product segment's featured revenue growth. iPhone, which accounted for 55% of the quarter's total revenue, saw its revenue increase 3% year over year. Meanwhile, Apple's fastest-growing segment was its smallest; its other products segment, which includes sales of Apple TV, Apple Watch, Beats products, iPod, and accessories, boasted a 23% year-over-year jump in revenue. Services revenue, which is Apple's second-largest product segment, also demonstrated strong growth, rising 22% year over year.On the back of a string of new updates to their product lines, Apple's Mac and iPad contributed meaningfully to the company's top-line growth. Mac and iPad revenue were up 7% and 2% year over year, respectively. For iPad, the quarter put the spotlight on a reenergized product line. After three quarters straight of year-over-year declines in segment revenue growth, the iPad's 2% year-over-year revenue increase validated Apple's moves to update the product line in March and June of this year. iPad revenue was down 12% year over year in Apple's previously reported quarter.Apple's outlook for its fourth fiscal quarter of 2017 also showed evidence of the company's revitalized growth story. Apple guided for fourth-quarter revenue between $49 and $52 billion, representing year-over-year growth of 4.5% to 10.9%. The midpoint of this revenue guidance would represent a 7.7% rise in revenue -- a rate that would mark Apple's fourth quarter in a row of accelerating revenue growth.Apple's guidance for its fourth-quarter gross profit margin was a range of 37.5% to 38%. This compares to a gross margin of 38% in the fourth quarter of 2017. In its earnings call on Tuesday, Apple management didn't shy away from referring to upcoming product launches, which likely include the tech giant's annual updates to its iPhone during the quarter. "And we're looking very much forward to the product rollouts [during the fourth quarter]," Apple CEO Tim Cook said. 
Apple Inc. Doubles Down on Its Future
One of the most important financial figures to keep an eye on when it comes to technology companies is spending on research and development (R&D). Spending on R&D, in absolute terms, as well as in terms of year-over-year changes, can be a reasonable indicator of how aggressively a company is spending to try to develop new technologies and products to go after its current, as well as potentially new, markets.Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) has been increasing its research and development investments at a relentless pace, and based on the company's most recent financial results, it doesn't seem to have any intention to slow that spending.Last quarter, Apple spent $2.94 billion on research and development, representing a $377 million increase -- that's nearly 15% -- from the same period a year ago. Over the last nine months, Apple has spent $8.58 billion on R&D, up a stunning $1.1 billion -- or again, nearly 15% -- from the same nine-month period a year ago. At Apple's current R&D run rate, the company is on track to spend nearly $12 billion in research and development in its current fiscal year, making it one of the largest spenders in tech.Analysts have asked Apple management about the large increases in the company's R&D spending in the past -- it has been increasing for quite a while -- and back in April 2015, Apple CFO Luca Maestri attributed it to the following:It's not hard to see relatively recent examples of this. Back in April of 2015, when Maestri made the comments that I'm referencing now, Apple hadn't released products like its new AirPod wireless earbuds, nor had it announced its HomePod smart speaker, which should start bringing in revenue by the end of this year.In terms of a "broader" product portfolio, in addition to these new product categories, we've seen Apple expand the offerings even within established categories. The iPad Pro, for example, has proven to be an interesting extension of the company's core iPad product line.Another perhaps even more interesting example, is what the company is expected to do with its iPhone lineup this year and in 2018. Apple is expected to launch three new iPhone models this year -- one with a 4.7-inch LCD, one with a 5.5-inch LCD, and one with a 5.8-inch OLED display -- and it's expected to release three iPhone models in 2018, as well. Even though these new products are "just" iPhones, Apple must do a lot more work -- on both hardware and software -- to launch a wider array of models.Finally, there's Apple's continued efforts to roll its own technologies for its current product portfolio, as well as for its upcoming products.Apple's in-house graphics processor technology, its rumored upcoming artificial intelligence chip, and its reported ambition to develop OLED display technology in-house, are just a few examples of Apple taking on additional technology-development efforts. Hiring the world's best engineers to build these technologies -- as well as countless others -- isn't cheap, but since Apple clearly wants to build leadership products, it needs to make the appropriate investments in people and resources.As Apple's financials show, it's doing just that.
