Apple Inc. Deserves More Respect
Respected technology reporter Mark Gurman recently published an article in Bloomberg, in which he goes over the key new features to expect in Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) upcoming iPhone with OLED display.The thrust of the article, though, was that the new iPhone "won't be a case-study of innovation, more a matter of perfecting features that are already out there in rival devices." While, on some level this is true, I think it dramatically understates the sheer level of technological innovation that Apple brings to the table as it "perfects" the technologies that its competitors delivered in earlier devices. In this column, I'd like to go over two areas mentioned by the article where Apple appears to be playing "catch up" but really isn't. The Gurman rightly observes that Apple isn't the first company to ready a "nearly all-screen design" for its phones, pointing to the Samsung (NASDAQOTH:SSNLF) Galaxy S8 and the Essential Phone as examples of phones that beat Apple to the punch here. That's certainly true, but Apple's approach won't debut too far behind its rivals' (meaning that Apple isn't reacting to its rivals' decisions, since these phones are planned years in advance). Moreover, Apple seems to be going with a design that should deliver an even better screen-to-body ratio than the Galaxy S8's display will. It may possibly outdo the Essential Phone in this area as well. Apple only seems to be "following" Samsung and the Essential Phone in this way because its new iPhone models typically launch in the fall and not earlier. It is also true that Apple is nowhere near the first to adopt organic light emitting diode-based display technology for its smartphones; it's actually way behind its rivals in adopting the technology. But, again, that doesn't mean that Apple wasn't innovating on display technology.For example, the iPhone 7-series introduced displays that, in many ways matched or beat the best OLED-based mobile displays in the market across key display performance vectors, per testing performed by DisplayMate. Indeed, DisplayMate's testing showed that the iPhone 7's LCD is brighter in most scenarios than the Galaxy S8's OLED, and exhibited superior color accuracy. It's also worth noting that OLED displays have only recently gotten to the point where they are competitive with the best LCD technology; the OLED displays on the Samsung Galaxy S3, S4, and S5 were often behind the LCDs on their Apple counterparts in many areas including color accuracy, brightness, and other metrics. If the OLED screen on this year's iPhone models is brighter than the iPhone 7/7 Plus LCDs, is at least as color accurate, and includes a zippy ProMotion display, then not only will Apple have "caught up" with the leading mobile OLED displays on the market, but it'll handily exceed them. That kind of innovation may seem somewhat trivial, but it is truly far from it. That's the kind of stuff that requires billions in annual research and development investment, as well as close collaboration with industry partners, to pull off. It's simply unfair, in my view, to paint this year's iPhone as anything less than a leadership device that'll likely raise the bar in several key areas if the rumor mill is correct. 
1 Problem With the Enthusiasm for This Apple Inc. Supplier
In about a month, Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) is expected to unveil a trio of iPhones that are expected to help boost Apple's iPhone business -- by far its largest and most important -- over the next year.When Apple wins, its suppliers tend to win, too. At a minimum, if Apple's iPhone sells better during this cycle than it did in the last, a supplier that maintained the same share within Apple's devices stands to benefit.There are some suppliers, like Broadcom (NASDAQ:AVGO), that stand to benefit by more than just pure iPhone unit growth; Broadcom management indicated on its June earnings conference call that its dollar content within the next iPhone should grow by about 40% year over year.That's some sweet growth.That content growth, analysts with KeyBanc said in a recent note (via Barron's), will be driven by the addition of three new chips."We believe the three new incremental chips will be for wireless charging, RF, and force touch," the analysts said.Given that Broadcom has talked at length in the past about how increased cellular capabilities drive the need for increased RF (radio frequency) content, an additional RF chip seems reasonable. Broadcom has also been rumored for some time to be working with Apple on a wireless charging solution for the new iPhones, so that, too, checks out.And, finally, while Analog Devices (NASDAQ:ADI) is believed to have been the supplier of the 3D Touch solution for the iPhone 6s series and iPhone 7 series, there have been rumors floating around that Broadcom would displace Analog Devices -- at least in part -- in the upcoming iPhone.Seemingly based on this view, KeyBanc analyst John Vinh reportedly reiterated an overweight rating and a $280 price target on the stock (which would represent about 10% upside from current levels).Though I share Vinh's optimism around Broadcom's business performance during the upcoming iPhone cycle, I'm not in a hurry to go out and buy Broadcom stock solely based on this. Here's why.Broadcom is a great company that executes well in just about every market that it participates in, thanks to strong engineering teams and shrewd management that aggressively weeds out losers in its technology portfolio and actively feeds the winners.Broadcom is a technology company that's run like a really good investment fund.However, Broadcom's business and engineering excellence is already known, as is the company's upcoming dollar content increase in the new phone (remember: the 40% number comes directly from Broadcom management), so there's not much opportunity for Broadcom to surprise the investment community -- at least regarding its wins at Apple.Now, not everything regarding the Apple wins are currently known; Apple might see better demand than expected for its new iPhone models (though Apple's expectations already seem huge, based on its reported build activity), which could push Broadcom's financial results (and possibly stock price) up further.At the same time, there's risk that Apple's new phones don't do as well in the market as Apple hopes, leading it to slash component orders, which would be a negative for Broadcom.In short, the big picture from a financial perspective with respect to Broadcom and the coming iPhone cycle is already known; all that's left is for Broadcom's quarterly financial performance to fill in the details.As far as Broadcom stock goes, I'm not making a call here either way -- I think it's a well-run company with a strong management team and exposure to a lot of interesting markets. On that basis, I might consider buying the stock, but I'm not rushing to buy the stock solely because of the already-known dollar content increases in the next iPhone.
