Why This Apple Inc. iPhone 8 Rumor Seems Wrong
Noted leaker Benjamin Geskin recently tweeted that Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) upcoming iPhone 8 will come in a color called "Blush Gold." Moreover, he said the bar code reads: "Blush Gold 64GB / 128GB" -- suggesting that Apple's upcoming iPhone models will only come with storage configurations of 64 and 128 gigabytes.Here's why I think that something isn't right about that.Today, Apple offers its iPhone 7-series smartphones in three storage tiers: 32, 128, and 256 gigabytes.Apple has often used storage capacity as a means by which to upsell users to higher-priced smartphones. Apple typically charges $100 extra for each successive storage tier within a flagship iPhone lineup. That's nice for Apple because it drives up iPhone average selling prices and therefore revenue, and it can push average gross profit up as well, since the incremental NAND flash usually costs less than what Apple charges customers to move up a tier.Previously, analyst Ming-Chi Kuo with KGI Securities said all new iPhone models -- that's the iPhone 7s, iPhone 7s Plus, and iPhone with OLED display -- will come in 64- and 256-gigabyte configurations. That claim makes sense: If Apple wants to deliver more value to customers to try to boost its market share while still giving customers reason to buy up the product stack, it makes sense to offer a 64-gigabyte base model as well as a model with as much storage as the previous-generation smartphones offered.In fact, I suspect that if it weren't for the industrywide 3-D NAND flash shortage, Apple might even have planned to offer a variant of its premium iPhone with OLED display with 512 gigabytes of storage, as it does with its current iPad Pro 10.5- and 12.9-inch devices.But offering users -- especially Apple's highest-paying customers, in the case of the iPhone with OLED display -- less storage than they could've gotten in the past, particularly as mobile storage demands continue to grow as photos and videos become more complex, seems a patently ludicrous idea.I don't know if Geskin may have gotten some bad information from an ill-informed source, or if this is an issue of miscommunication, but there's no way Apple will limit any of its new iPhone models this fall to just 128 gigabytes of storage.I think we'll see iPhone models with 512 gigabytes of storage launch no later than the 2018 iPhone product cycle. By then, the industrywide 3-D NAND supply issues should be a thing of the past as capacity comes online, yield rates improve, and the NAND chips themselves become denser.However, I think there's a slight chance we could see such phones sooner than that: Apple could very well launch 512-gigabyte variants of the upcoming iPhone models -- or, at the very least, the premium OLED model -- mid-cycle, as a way to stimulate incremental demand and/or try to maintain, or even further boost, iPhone average selling prices as the initial euphoria around the devices wanes. 
Rumored Apple Inc. Supplier Talks 3D Sensing
It's anticipated that Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) upcoming premium iPhone with OLED display will include a new 3D sensing feature. This 3D sensing technology is expected to, at the very least, be a key enabler of the rumored facial-recognition technology Apple intends to replace Touch ID with in the premium iPhone.Though this 3D sensing technology is interesting from the viewpoint of Apple's introducing of compelling new features to its consumers in a bid to increase its iPhone shipments and average selling prices, it's also worth seeing the impact to Apple suppliers that the inclusion of this technology will have.One company that's expected to benefit nicely from the inclusion of 3D sensing in the new iPhone is Lumentum (NASDAQ:LITE). The company, which holds itself out as a "market-leading manufacturer of innovative optical and photonic products enabling optical networking and commercial laser customers worldwide," spent a good deal of time on its most recent earnings call talking up the ramp-up of its 3D sensing components.Let's see what it had to say. Lumentum President and CEO Alan Lowe said the company has received "more than $200 million" worth of 3D sensing-related orders since April. In its most recent quarter, Lowe said the company shipped "approximately $5 million of 3D sensing revenue.""We have a lot of work to do to translate these orders into shipped revenue," Lowe said. "But we expect 3D sensing to be a material contributor to our business in the coming quarters as well as the coming years."This isn't surprising, as the Apple business should drive significant revenue over the next couple of years. 3D sensing is rumored for just the premium OLED iPhone this year, but Apple will surely want to expand this technology across its iPhone and possibly even iPad product portfolio in the years ahead.But it's more than just Apple. Apple is leading the way, which means other premium smartphone makers are going to want to follow suit soon enough. And, of course, features that begin life in premium smartphones have a wonderful way of waterfalling down into mid-range and eventually low-end smartphones.If 3D sensing becomes a must-have feature in smartphones, then Lumentum should be poised to benefit from the adoption of the technology.Lowe provided some insight into the near-term production ramp-up of 3D sensing components."Our near-term focus in 3D sensing is to ramp production to higher levels than anticipated just three months ago," Lowe said. "We expect monthly volumes to increase throughout the end of the calendar year to meet our strong customer demand."The executive clarified later in the question-and-answer session that the increase relative to initial expectations was between 25% and 30%, though he did add that if Lumentum could increase its production even more, its "customer would probably take it."That might be an indication that Apple expects to ship more of its OLED iPhone models than it previously thought. That wouldn't be a surprise, considering Apple's iPhone shipments surprised to the upside last quarter, which could bode well for the coming iPhone cycle.Here's another notable comment from Lumentum CFO Aaron Tachibana: "We accelerated our 3D sensing demand immediately after receiving customer approval for production readiness early in the fourth quarter."The executive added that Lumentum's 3D sensing revenue "will increase materially in Q1" and "is only limited by [Lumentum's] ability to ramp faster." Here, incidentally, the executive is referring to the current quarter. Its most recently reported quarter was the fourth quarter of its fiscal year 2017. Clearly, Apple is buying as many 3D sensing components as it can get its hands on. Considering how popular the OLED iPhone is likely to be, I'm not surprised.This is going to be a fun iPhone product cycle for both those who follow Apple, as well as those who follow its suppliers. 
