Apple Inc. Has a Huge Lead Over the Competition
Later this year, Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) is expected to debut a premium iPhone with 3D sensing capabilities. The technology that'll ultimately end up inside the new iPhone is likely a combination of Apple's ingenuity, technology it acquired when it bought 3D sensing company PrimeSense in late 2013, as well as the substantial efforts of many third-party suppliers.Bringing to market a ground-breaking technology wrapped in a sleek, mass-market device isn't easy.Per well-connected KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo (via MacRumors), Apple has about a two-year lead in 3D sensing capabilities compared to Qualcomm (NASDAQ:QCOM), which is easily the key technology provider to the various high-end Android smartphone vendors.According to Kuo, Qualcomm is apparently dealing with reportedly "immature algorithms" as well as issues with the reference design that it provides to smartphones. An algorithm is just a fancy computer science term for a procedure to compute a desired result.Apple's lead in 3D sensing technology isn't surprising; Qualcomm seems to be trying to develop this technology on its own from scratch, while Apple almost certainly had a significant head start in getting this technology to market thanks to its acquisition of PrimeSense.PrimeSense was a company dedicated to 3D sensing technology and had been operating since 2005 -- that's years of highly focused 3D sensing-focused institutional knowledge built up.Additionally, PrimeSense wasn't just a pie-in-the-sky start-up that produced great demos in the lab but never developer a commercially viable product -- its 3D sensing technology was at the heart of the Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) Kinect.Furthermore, Apple's long-term vision to bring 3D sensing capability to its smartphones surely goes back years -- Apple did buy PrimeSense nearly four years ago. Apple certainly not only leveraged the massive amount of technology that PrimeSense had built up in the eight years that it operated independently, but I'm sure that Apple supercharged PrimeSense's research and development capabilities and gave the team a singular goal to stay laser focused (no pun intended) on iPhone 8.That's just going to be tough to beat for anybody, even a mobile technology juggernaut like Qualcomm.Interestingly, Kuo reportedly said that major smartphone vendors -- Qualcomm's customers -- aren't even convinced that 3D sensing is going to be a worthwhile feature to add to their flagships.Unsurprisingly, they're reportedly waiting to see how well Apple's 3D sensing implementation is received in the marketplace.While the Android smartphone makers wait to see how Apple's 3D sensing technology pans out, you can be sure that Apple is already deep in the development process for its next several generations of 3D sensing technology for future iPhone models.Of course, if Apple's 3D sensing implementation flops in the market, Apple may of course redirect development resources away from the technology, but Apple tends to be tenacious -- it'd take several generations of underwhelming customer response for Apple to pull the plug on it.Until then, I expect Apple to keep chugging away at trying to make its 3D sensing technology as robust as possible.
Apple, Inc.'s 2 Fastest-Growing Segments
Apple's (NASDAQ:AAPL) iPhone undoubtedly accounts for the lion's share of the tech company's business. But strong growth in two lesser-known Apple segments deserves some attention.Apple's services and other products businesses have grown exceptionally fast recently. Here's a close look at each segment.Apple's services segment has transformed into the tech giant's second-most important product segment, growing by double digit percentage points on a year-over-year basis for nine quarters in a row. The growth has been particularly strong in recent quarters, up 22% year over year in Apple's third fiscal quarter of 2017 and 18% year over year in the second fiscal quarter of 2017. Indeed, Apple's quarterly services revenue in Q3 was an all-time high, rising to $7.4 billion. Further, the growth is broad-based. Management said during Apple's third-quarter earnings call that it saw double-digit year-over-year growth in each of its geographic segments.The App Store has been the primary driver for Apple's Services segment. This was no exception in Apple's most recent quarter. But revenue from Apple Music and iCloud storage also grew strongly in Q3, Apple management explained during the quarter's earnings call. In addition, growth in total paid subscriptions across all of its service offerings are proving to be a key catalyst for the segment. Apple's total subscriptions hit 185 million in Q3, up 20 million compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2017.Apple's other products segment has also posted strong growth recently, up 23% year over year in Apple's third fiscal quarter of 2017, and 31% in Q2. The segment has benefited from rising sales of the Apple Watch and from sales of its new AirPods.Notably, however, Apple's other products segment, which includes sales of Apple TV, Apple Watch, Beats products, AirPods, iPod, and accessories, is subject to more volatility than Apple's services segment. Case in point, Apple's other products segment saw revenue decline 8% year over year in Apple's first fiscal quarter of 2017. Notably, however, Apple did say its Apple Watch revenue hit a record high during the same quarter, despite the year-over-year pullback in other products revenue. One of the segment's newest and most important catalysts, therefore, remained a key driver during the quarter, bolstering the case for how new product launches can help the segment grow over the long haul.Given the propensity for volatility in the hardware sales included in Apple's other products segment, investors can't expect Apple's other products to continue growing with the same confidence they might have in Apple's services segment's growth potential. But that doesn't mean investors should ignore the segment. Both Apple Watch and Apple's more recently launched AirPods have proven the tech company's knack for successfully bringing new products to market. During Apple's third-quarter earnings call, management said Apple Watch sales increased 50% year over year in its most recent quarter, and noted that demand for AirPods still exceeded production during the quarter, despite increased production capacity.Further, it's worth noting that, in the near-term, Apple is confident in continued growth for both Apple Watch and AirPods, as Apple CFO Luca Maestri said the two products are "doing incredibly well" and are expected to positively impact the company's revenue next quarter. Thanks to their recent growth, Apple's services and revenue segments accounted for 16% and 6% of total revenue in Q3, respectively. This is up from 14% and 5% in the year-ago quarter. These two segments will likely grow to represent an even larger share of Apple's revenue.
