Raging bull: 9 records in a row for the Dow
This stock market just doesn't want to go down. The Dow eked out a small gain Monday -- just enough to lift the 30 industrial stocks to their ninth record high in a row and 10th straight gain overall.  Boeing (BA), Goldman Sachs (GS) and Walmart (WMT) led the way for the Dow (INDU), which is up 12% in 2017 and more than 20% since President Trump was elected.  Wall Street has focused more on strong corporate earnings and less on the turmoil in Washington during Trump's first 200 days in office. And that could continue.  "Investors are not worried about risks. The market is ignoring noise," said JJ Kinahan, chief market strategist with TD Ameritrade.  Related: These charts show how the Trump economy is really doing  Kinahan notes that it's hard to remember a period where so many people think stocks are due for a big pullback. Sometimes when people all expect the market to zig, it zags instead.  "It's the rally that nobody respects. People are just thinking about how bad things could get. There are lot of non-believers," Kinahan noted.  The rally has been fueled by mega-sized tech stocks Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Amazon (AMZN, Tech30), Facebook (FB, Tech30), Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) and Google owner Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30), plus other hot stocks like Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) and Tesla (TSLA).  It could be a bad sign for the broader economy if more companies don't start to participate in the rally. Experts usually prefer when a larger mix of companies are doing well. The rally could also be at risk if any of those market darlings start to founder.  Related: The market hasn't been this calm since 1996  "The market is not as healthy as it looks. A rising tide is only lifting the biggest boats," said David Lafferty, chief market strategist for Natixis Global Asset Management.  Lafferty is particularly concerned that the market may be ignoring the possibility of more debt ceiling drama later this year.  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has been trying to convince Congress that it must soon raise the debt ceiling so the U.S. can continue to pay its bills on time.  But none of that matters to investors right now. Healthy profits from big businesses have investors feeling giddy. CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index, which looks at seven measures of market sentiment, is showing signs of greed.  That could mean that the market may make a run at this year's earlier record of records. Back in February, the Dow closed at a new high 12 days in a row. 
These charts show how the Trump economy is really doing
Three months ago, CNNMoney examined six barometers of the economy to gauge how America was doing under President Trump. It's time to take another look under the hood.  The good news for Trump is that many parts of the economy are still humming. Trump is taking credit particularly for strong job growth and record high stock prices. The housing market is another bright spot. And the trade deficit has narrowed.  Here's a more detailed look at the economy, 200 days into the Trump presidency.  1. Jobs  It's hard to find fault with the latest jobs numbers. The unemployment rate is 4.3%, a 16-year low. The economy has added more than 1 million jobs since Trump took office.  On the other hand, wage growth has yet to really pick up. Employers still don't feel pressure to offer big salaries to attract the workers they need. Average hourly earnings have increased only 2.5% over the past 12 months. The Federal Reserve would rather see 3% to 3.5%.  Still, because inflation is low, those wage gains are helping many Americans.  2. Housing prices  They're red hot.  The average price for an existing home in June was a record $263,800, or 6.5% higher than a year ago. June was the 64th consecutive month of gains compared with a year earlier.  And borrowing money to buy a house remains relatively affordable, despite recent interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. The average rate for a 30-year mortgage is just 3.93%, according to Freddie Mac, down from 4.02% three months ago.  3. Lending  Consumers aren't borrowing just to buy homes. They're taking on debt for cars and using credit cards for lots of other things.  Americans had $3.843 trillion in loans outstanding in May, up from $3.766 trillion at the end of last year, according to the Fed.  And businesses are borrowing more, reversing a trend from earlier this year. That could be a good sign for Trump and the economy. Consumers can't prop up the economy alone: Companies need to pull their weight and invest.  4. Consumer spending  Big stores including Macy's (M), Kohl's (KSS) and J.C. Penney (JCP) report earnings this week, and the results could be lousy.  The dominance of Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) is one reason. But Americans may also be spending less on clothes, toys and other smaller purchases -- even though they're taking out more loans.  Retail sales fell 0.2% in June. Economists were expecting a slight increase. And overall consumer spending was up just 0.1% in June.  Spending has increased 2.8% over the past 12 months, a bit below the 3% pace many experts feel is necessary to keep the economy on track.  5. Trade  Trump wants more consumers -- in the United States and around the globe -- to buy American. And it looks like that's starting to happen.  The trade deficit fell slightly in June from three months ago, to $43.6 billion. That's the lowest since just before the election.  America's suddenly vibrant oil industry is a big reason the balance is shifting. Thanks to technologies like fracking, the United States exported more crude in June and imported less.  Exports to Canada and Mexico rose in June, too, a possible sign that Trump's tough talk is working with America's two big North American trading partners.  China is still a sore spot. The U.S. trade deficit with China is up more than 6% this year.  6. Stocks  An undeniable win for the president. Fears of a market collapse under Trump have proved to be misguided.  The Dow keeps hitting records and is up 12% this year.  And the blue chips are lagging. The Nasdaq has surged nearly 20% thanks to big gains in Amazon, Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Google owner Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30) and Facebook (FB, Tech30).  For now, Wall Street is willing to ignore the turmoil in the Trump administration. Investors are hoping for eventual changes to the tax code and deregulation of the financial industry.  Strong earnings don't hurt, either. Profits for the companies in the S&P 500 are up more than 10% from a year ago. 
