Apple's Tim Cook gets $89 million stock payout
Tim Cook's stewardship of Apple is paying off. The iPhone maker's CEO received company stock worth $89 million last week after hitting a key performance target, according to a regulatory filing Monday.  The payout is part of the huge welcome package that Apple (AAPL, Tech30) gave Cook after he succeeded Steve Jobs in 2011. Cook only gets the shares in fixed amounts as they vest over a period of years.  Half of the latest batch was linked to the performance of Apple's share price compared with those of other S&P 500 companies. Because Apple outperformed more than two-thirds of the companies in the index over the past three years, Cook received the full payout, the filing said.  Related: Apple will invest $1.3 billion in Iowa  Not all the money ended up in Cook's hands, though. Apple said it set aside about $46 million to meet tax requirements. Cook sold off the other shares between Thursday and Monday for a total of about $43 million.  The filing didn't say what Cook plans to do with the money, and an Apple spokesman declined to comment. But the Apple CEO said in 2015 that he plans to give most of his wealth away to charity.  The huge stock grant the tech company gave Cook in 2011 was valued at around $380 million at the time. But Apple's share price gains since then mean the nearly 3 million shares that are yet to vest are worth about $484 million at current prices.  Cook also currently holds Apple shares worth about $145 million, according to the filing.  The company's stock is up nearly 40% so far this year. 
Fitbit tries to catch up to the Apple Watch
Fitbit gave Apple a two-and-a-half-year head start on smartwatches. Now it's finally trying to catch up. The leader in wearable devices is hoping the Fitbit Ionic will drum up interest in its brand and a tech category that's lost some appeal.  The "space-themed" smartwatch ($299.95) is $30 more than the starting price for the Apple Watch, its biggest competitor. That's a hefty price to ask of people who may already own a smartwatch or are cautious about investing in one for the first time.  The Ionic has everything you'd expect from a fitness device: sleep and activity tracking, a heart rate monitor, GPS integration, smart notifications and long battery life -- one of its biggest selling points. It'll last up to four days, compared with 18 hours for the Apple Watch.  The waterproof Ionic comes sprinkled with additions for fitness fanatics, too. There's a sensor that measures oxygen in the blood and personalized workouts that adapt to your feedback.  You can work toward goals -- such as running a mile faster -- listen to audio coaching and store up to 300 songs on the device. The Ionic also features a payments system called Fitbit Pay that allows you to tap the device at checkout to pay.  The Ionic is Fitbit's first product with both hardware and software, Fitbit OS, designed in house. Jonah Becker, vice president of design, said the device was inspired by the concept of a "space journey" and "progressive thinking that gets you to a destination."  "The space theme influences the color palate," said Becker, referencing the orange, blue and steel color options. "Think about 'The Martian' ... think about Elon Musk colonizing Mars ... and the icy landscape of 'Interstellar.'"  Related: Uber taps Expedia's Dara Khosrowshahi as CEO  The Ionic features a lightweight casing made of aluminum and a colored spherical glass touch screen.  The company flirted with a smartwatch before with the Fitbit Blaze. But CEO James Park previously said the category didn't make sense for the company -- that smartwatches lacked "purpose." Now it's changed its mind.  "We're not entering the category for the sake of entering the category," Park told a group of reporters in New York City last week. "For us, there's a purpose. We feel very strongly that smartwatches are a platform for us to deliver the most powerful tools the market has seen. The larger form factor of smartwatches versus activity and fitness trackers allow us to integrate many more advanced sensors and provide richer displays and user interfaces."  But Fitbit (FIT) has catching up to do. Smartwatches are a $10 billion market, and that's expected to double in four years, according to IDC. But shipments of wearables were also down late last year compared with the year before.  Experts believe the category will surge again once smartwatches are freed from the smartphone. The Ionic, like the Apple Watch, requires a sync from a smartphone, but Fitbit plans to launch a version next year that won't. And the pay feature already means you can leave your wallet at home.  The Ionic also comes with apps from Starbucks (SBUX) and AccuWeather and music streaming from Pandora. Other developers can start building apps for the Ionic starting in September.  Apple (AAPL, Tech30) is expected to launch a cellular version next month.  Body Smart: Can a week of wearables improve your health?  Apple also recently reported its best quarter yet for wearables. Fitbit's stock has plunged 60% in the past year and now trades 70% below the IPO price. Yet it still holds the No. 1 spot for health app downloads on iTunes and Android.  In addition to the Ionic smartwatch, the company revealed its first Bluetooth wireless earbuds and a second version of the popular Aria smart scale. It also promoted future Ionic features, including sleep apnea tracking, and its vision for disease screening and monitoring for research.  Fitbit is emphasizing fashion, too. As with the Fitbit Charge and Alta, you can swap out bands and upgrade to premium options like leather ($29.95 each). Fashion brands like Fossil, and its sub-brands like Kate Spade, Emporio Armani and Michael Kors -- have added smart features to accessories.  Fitbit is clearly late to the smartwatch race, and it's unclear whether the Ionic will be enough to fix that. But Park said he's confident Fitbit is the "best positioned company to have the most profound impact on people's health outside of the healthcare system."  This story was updated from its original version to clarify the starting price of the Apple Watch. 
Whole Foods just got a whole lot cheaper
Whole Foods is a whole lot cheaper. After completing its $13.7 billion purchase of Whole Foods on Monday, Amazon slashed the prices of dozens of items at all 460 of its new grocery stores. From fresh fish to produce, prices were down across the board.  CNNMoney checked out its bustling location at Columbus Circle in New York. New signage promoted the deal and the lower prices.  "We're growing something good," said a large sign at the entrance with Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) and Whole Foods logos.  Organic bananas are now 69 cents (down from 99 cents). Avocados, which used to cost $2.99 each, are now $1.49 each. Organic brown eggs are $3.99 per dozen, down from $4.39. Butter was cut from $5.29 to $4.49  Fresh Atlantic Salmon is $5 cheaper, now selling for $9.99 per pound. Apples were also cheaper, with Gala now being sold for $1.99 (reduced from $2.99) and Fuji apples also being reduced to $1.99 a pound, down from $3.49.  Whole Foods also chopped a dollar off its in-house brand of creamy and crunchy almond butter to $6.99 a jar. Rotisserie chickens are a dollar cheaper, now selling for $7.99 each.  Yet, perhaps the biggest sign that Amazon has moved in: Whole Foods is now selling gadgets. There was a huge display of "farm fresh" Amazon Echo devices that were being sold for a slight discount.  CNNMoney took photos to show the difference in prices.  
Uber's next CEO: Who is Dara Khosrowshahi?
Dara Khosrowshahi sets himself apart from the young guns of Silicon Valley. "I'm different from many of these young CEOs in that I'm not the founder ... I'm what you'd call 'professional management,'" he once said.   He was talking about being the CEO of online travel company Expedia (EXPE), but the same thing applies to Uber, which on Sunday picked him as its new CEO.  Related: Uber taps Expedia's Dara Khosrowshahi as CEO  An Iranian refugee who built his early career in the U.S. financial industry, Khosrowshahi is facing a new kind of challenge at the ride-hailing company after 12 years running Expedia.  Uber, the world's most valuable startup, is reeling from a catalog of crises culminating in the forced resignation in June of its CEO and co-founder, Travis Kalanick, who remains a powerful shareholder and board member.  Here's what you need to know about the man the Uber board has picked to steady the ship:   Fierce competitor  Khosrowshahi made a name for himself at Expedia by going on offense against disruptive challengers, buying travel startups and investing heavily in technology to "stay ahead of the pack," he said at a recent tech summit.  "The minute you stop improving on the internet, someone catches up and takes over," he told the audience.  The 48-year-old executive may need to heed those words at Uber, which is facing growing competition at home and abroad. The ride-hailing startup has been without a CEO since Kalanick stepped down in June and has suffered an exodus of senior managers.  Heading Uber will be a big shift for Khosrowshahi in at least one respect -- he'll be going from a perennial underdog to an industry leader. Though he has aggressively expanded Expedia's business over the years, it still trails arch rival Priceline (PCLN, Tech30).  Tough start  Khosrowshahi took the reins at Expedia in 2005, just as the financial crisis hit. He was a young new leader and readily admits that he wasn't a particularly good CEO during his first year at the helm.  Things changed, he says, after an engineer came to him and told him, "Dara, you're telling us what to do, but you're not telling us where to go."  "That really shifted my view of what a CEO has to do," he said in 2013. "A CEO of a multinational global company can't say what to do, you've got to plant the flag."  Expedia has prospered under his leadership, despite threats from new rivals like Airbnb and established tech giants like Google (GOOGL, Tech30). Expedia's share price is now more than six times as high as it was when the company went public in 2005.  That's impressive growth, but it pales in comparison with that of Priceline's stock, which is worth around 80 times as much as it was in 2005.  Related: Got $1750? Book a trip or buy 1 Priceline share  Not afraid of Trump  Born in Iran, Khosrowshahi immigrated to the United States as a refugee at the age of 9 when his family fled the Iranian Revolution.  Khosrowshahi's experience meant President Trump's order earlier this year to suspend immigration from seven Muslim majority countries hit close to home.  "I believe that with this executive order, our president has reverted to the short game," he wrote in an internal company memo. The U.S. "will certainly be seen as a smaller nation, one that is inward-looking versus forward thinking, reactionary versus visionary," he continued.  Related: After fighting Trump, Expedia CEO just wants to get back to work  Expedia was one of the first in the tech industry to file a legal challenge to the president's travel ban. On the day of Trump's inauguration, Khosrowshahi tweeted a new Expedia advertisement touting the importance of travel to fight "narrow minds" and "prejudice."  He also drew attention for saying on an earnings call in February, "Hopefully we will all be alive to see the end of next year." Khosrowshahi later played down the remark, which was widely interpreted as a dig at Trump, but his concerns about the president's stance remain clear.  The American Dream  The American dream "is the best brand out there," he said in May. "It's stronger than Apple and Microsoft and Google combined times 10."  If you believe in democracy and work hard, you can make it, he said, "and that's what makes this country great, and I think the president should be for that not against it," he said.  Raised in New York State, he studied electrical engineering at Brown University and became an investment banker shortly after graduation. He rose to vice president at investment bank Allen & Company before leaving for IAC (IAC), working under Chairman Barry Diller.  Serial dealmaker  Khosrowshahi drove Expedia to success by focusing on growth and dominating the online travel booking industry, especially when it came to hotels and accommodation.  Over the years, it bought Trviago, Orbitz, Travelocity and Egencia, gaining access to a trove of data on travel habits.  Two years ago, Expedia acquired Airbnb rival HomeAway, getting in on the increasingly popular vacation rental trend.  Khosrowshahi became the highest paid CEO in the U.S. in 2015, raking in nearly $95 million thanks to a huge award of stock options after he agreed a deal to stay with Expedia until 2020.  But that was before Uber came along. 
