Sheryl Sandberg on Charlottesville: 'I was so heartbroken this weekend'
Sheryl Sandberg is the latest top executive to denounce prejudice after a rally of hate groups in Virginia turned deadly. Sandberg, who is the chief operating officer of Facebook (FB, Tech30), said in a post that she discussed a book about the Holocaust with her daughter on Sunday.  "How do you tell a 10-year-old that such extreme racism and inhumanity has taken place so recently? And how do you explain why atrocities are still committed against so many people all over the world?" she said.  Such conversations with children are "timely and crucial" given what happened in Charlottesville, Sandberg said.  "Every generation has to be vigilant in fighting against the type of bigotry and hatred that was displayed by the white supremacists in Charlottesville. Along with millions of others, I was so heartbroken this weekend," she said.  Related: CEOs condemn racism after Charlottesville  Sandberg also wrote about Heather Heyer, who was killed Saturday when a car plowed into a crowd of counter-protesters opposing the "Unite the Right" march.  "The brave Heather Heyer's mother Susan Bro said she wanted her daughter's 'death to be a rallying cry for justice and equality and fairness and compassion.' Let's honor her by teaching all of our children how to honor and respect those values," she said.  A number of business leaders took to social media and released statements on Monday to voice their condemnation of the violence.  Tim Cook, the CEO of Apple (AAPL, Tech30), called white supremacy and racist violence "a moral issue -- an affront to America" in a tweet, while Goldman Sachs (GS) chief Lloyd Blankfein quoted President Abraham Lincoln.  Merck (MRK) CEO Kenneth Frazier took the most significant step, quitting President Trump's manufacturing council after Trump's initial reluctance to specifically condemn the racist groups.  Sandberg does not serve on any of Trump's corporate advisory groups, though she met with the president in December. 
Wall Street stages biggest rally in nearly 4 months
U.S. stocks climbed sharply on Monday as Wall Street's fears about the North Korea nuclear crisis faded. The S&P 500 rallied 1%, notching its biggest gain since late April. The Dow climbed 135 points.  Worries about saber-rattling between President Trump and North Korea helped drive U.S. stocks last week to their worst performance in nearly five months.  "This is a sigh-of-relief rally. It appears calmer heads will prevail here," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Wunderlich Securities.  Investors poured back into tech stocks, which had tumbled last week as people cashed out of winning stocks like Apple (AAPL, Tech30). The Nasdaq jumped 1.3% on Monday.  Related: CEOs keep turning on Trump   There were other signs that fear is fading: Gold retreated for the first time in four days. The VIX (VIX) volatility index plunged by 22% after springing back to life last week.  Prices for ultra-safe government bonds also fell, lifting yields on Treasuries after they hit a six-week low on Friday. CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index remains in "fear" mode, though it edged away from the "extreme fear" territory it neared last week.  Wall Street seemed to mostly shrug off Trump's attack on Kenneth Frazier after the Merck CEO quit the president's manufacturing council in protest of the president's response to the events in Charlottesville. Trump said that now Frazier "will have more time to LOWER RIPOFF DRUG PRICES!"  But Merck (MRK) shares rose modestly, while the iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology ETF (IBB) climbed 1%, in line with the rest of the market. 
From racism to climate change, CEOs keep turning on Trump
The election of a businessman to the White House fueled a wave of optimism among America's CEOs. Now some of those same business leaders are turning on President Trump. On Monday, Kenneth Frazier, the CEO of Merck (MRK), joined the growing list of executives who feel compelled by Trump's words and policies to take a stand against him.  Frazier, one of the country's most prominent black business leaders, quit Trump's manufacturing council to "take a stand against intolerance and extremism."  That appeared to be a reference to Trump's statement over the weekend blaming the deadly violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, on "many sides" after neo-Nazis and white nationalists clashed with counter-protesters.  Trump lashed out at Frazier within minutes, saying the resignation would give him "more time to LOWER RIPOFF DRUG PRICES!"  Related: Trump lashes out at black CEO who quits council  Then, on Monday afternoon, Trump specifically called out the KKK and neo-Nazis. By then almost two days had passed since the president's first remarks on Charlottesville -- and some of the nation's most prominent business leaders had filled the gap with denunciations of racism.  Business leaders have spoken against Trump before. In January, his ban on travel from certain Muslim-majority countries drew criticism from Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) CEO Jeff Bezos, Starbucks (SBUX) boss Howard Schultz, Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) CEO Reed Hastings, Apple's (AAPL, Tech30) Tim Cook and many, many others.  In June, Tesla (TSLA) CEO Elon Musk and Disney's (DIS) Bob Iger quit Trump's business council in protest of his decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord.  Related: Intel CEO is the latest to leave Trump's manufacturing council  On Monday night, the CEOs of Under Armour (UA) and Intel (INTC, Tech30) followed Frazier and quit Trump's manufacturing council.  "Under Armour engages in innovation and sports, not politics," said the sports brand's CEO, Kevin Plank.  "We should honor -- not attack -- those who have stood up for equality and other cherished American values," said Intel chief Brian Krzanich, while lamenting "the serious harm our divided political climate is causing to critical issues."  Related: Under Armour CEO quits Trump's manufacturing council  On immigration, racism and climate change, CEOs have sought to provide the moral leadership they perceive to be lacking from the White House.  "America's leaders must honor our fundamental values by clearly rejecting expressions of hatred, bigotry and group supremacy," Frazier said in his statement on Monday.  Goldman Sachs (GS) CEO Lloyd Blankfein referenced such a leadership void in June when he fired off his first-ever tweet to criticize Trump's retreat from the Paris climate agreement.  "Today's decision is a setback for the environment and for the U.S.'s leadership position in the world," he said at the time.   Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, a Yale School of Management professor who leads the university's annual CEO summit, said business leaders are stepping up as trust in public officials declines.  "They recognize that they are some of the most trusted voices in society right now," Sonnenfeld told CNNMoney. "It's absolutely critical that they use that platform."  Sonnenfeld said he received emails from more than a dozen leading CEOs on Monday reacting to Frazier's statement -- and especially Trump's broadside.  Related: CEOs outraged after Charlottesville - and three quit Trump council  "This has really hit a nerve -- attacking this great CEO," Sonnenfeld said.  Business Roundtable, a powerful lobby group of CEOs that advocate for tax reform, put out a statement condemning the violence in Virginia. The organization is chaired by JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon.  "America's business leaders are shocked at the violence that took place in Charlottesville, and we mourn the unnecessary loss of life. Racism has no place in our businesses, our communities or our country," the statement said.  Related: CEOs condemn racism after Charlottesville  Sonnenfeld predicted more corporate leaders "across sectors and across party" will come out against Trump.  It's a stunning reversal considering the euphoria among business leaders following Trump's election. A JPMorgan Chase survey published in February found that 76% of executives believed the new administration would help their businesses. Just 12% said they expected it to hurt.  The stock market soared as Wall Street cheered the administration's economic agenda. While stocks keep rising, market analysts say the recent gains have been driven more by corporate profits and economic growth than Trump's policies.  At the same time, CEOs have become frustrated with Trump's inability to get his tax, infrastructure, health care or deregulation plans through Congress.  A stunning 50% of the CEOs, executives, government officials and academics surveyed at the Yale CEO Summit in June gave Trump an "F" for his first 130 days in office. Just 1% gave him an "A." 
How China squeezes tech secrets from U.S. companies
President Trump is set to crank up the pressure on China over trade. He's expected to ask officials on Monday to look into Chinese practices that allegedly squeeze or steal valuable commercial secrets from U.S. companies doing business there. Tariffs on Chinese goods could eventually follow.  Chinese state media have lashed out at the plans, but Trump is picking up on an issue that American businesses have been complaining about for years.  "China does not play by the rules, and it has gotten away with it for too long," James Andrew Lewis, a senior vice president at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, wrote in a blog post this month.  Related: Trump White House to look into China's trade practices  As China has raced to become a hi-tech manufacturing powerhouse, it stands accused by the U.S. government, industry groups and think tanks of trying to take a short cut by spying, hacking or forcing companies to hand over their intellectual property.  Beijing has always denied the allegations.  "We hope the U.S. will view this matter based on facts and objectively recognize China's efforts and progress in protecting intellectual property rights, as well as our accomplishments through indigenous innovation that has propelled economic growth," Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said Monday.  She said Chinese citizens filed nearly twice as many patent applications as Americans last year, and Chinese spending on research and development almost matched U.S. levels.  But in a report this year, the Commission on the Theft of American Intellectual Property named China as the main offender, estimating the cost to the U.S. economy at up to $600 billion a year.  American companies complain that Chinese authorities effectively make them hand over key technology in exchange for access to the world's second largest economy.  Restricted access   Chinese rules require foreign firms who want to enter certain industries -- such as energy, telecommunications and autos -- to form joint ventures with local partners, which often results in the transfer of technology to the Chinese companies.  Beijing also strongly encourages global businesses to carry out R&D activities inside the country.  In the past year, Apple (AAPL, Tech30) has announced plans to open R&D centers in four Chinese cities. And last month, in order to comply with new cybersecurity rules, it said it was setting up its first iCloud data center in China in partnership with a local firm.  Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) and Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) already have local partners for their cloud computing services in China.  Related: China's new cyber law just kicked in and nobody's sure how it works  Price of entry  Beijing has other ways of getting its hands on valuable commercial information. Officials often insist on taking a close look at technology that foreign companies want to sell in China.  "Chinese government authorities jeopardize the value of trade secrets by demanding unnecessary disclosure of confidential information for product approvals," the American Chamber of Commerce in China said in a report published in April.  Some experts say that handing over technology has effectively become a cost of doing business in China -- a market too big for most companies to ignore.  "Many Chinese companies go after technology hard and the tactics they use show up again and again, leading us to believe there is some force (the government?) teaching them how to do these things," said Dan Harris, a Seattle-based attorney who advises international companies on doing business in China.  "The thing is that the foreign companies that give up their technology usually do so at least somewhat of their own volition," he told CNNMoney. "Yes, maybe they need to do so to get into China, but they also have the choice not to go into China, right?"  Closing the stable door?  Other analysts say that the U.S. administration is coming to the problem too late.  "Intellectual property (IP) theft is yesterday's issue," wrote Lewis of the Center for Strategic and International Studies.  "In part because of past technology transfer and in part because of heavy, sustained government investment in science and research, China has developed its own innovative capabilities," he wrote.  "Creating new IP in the United States is more important than keeping IP from China." 
CEOs condemn racism after Charlottesville
Top business executives on Monday condemned racism and extremism after a rally turned deadly in Virginia. Apple CEO Tim Cook called white supremacy and racist violence "a moral issue -- an affront to America" in a tweet.  "We must all stand against it," he wrote.  Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein, meanwhile, quoted President Abraham Lincoln: "'A house divided against itself cannot stand.' Isolate those who try to separate us. No equivalence w/ those who bring us together."  Their statements came after white supremacist and alt-right groups descended on Charlottesville, Virginia and clashed with counter-protesters. Lincoln: "A house divided against itself cannot stand." Isolate those who try to separate us. No equivalence w/ those who bring us together. But the most drastic action from a business leader came early Monday, when Merck (MRK) CEO Kenneth Frazier, one of the country's most prominent black corporate executives, quit President Trump's manufacturing council.  "America's leaders must honor our fundamental values by clearly rejecting expressions of hatred, bigotry and group supremacy," Frazier said.  Related: Merck CEO helped get black inmate off death row  Trump on Saturday spoke against bigotry and violence "on many sides" but did not specifically condemn white supremacists. It wasn't until Monday afternoon that he bluntly called "KKK, neo-Nazis, White Supremacists, and other hate groups ... repugnant to everything we hold dear as Americans."  Hours before Trump made that speech, he bashed Frazier on Twitter. About an hour after Frazier left the council, Trump tweeted that the executive "will have more time to LOWER RIPOFF DRUG PRICES!"  Paul Polman, CEO of Unilever, tweeted his thanks to Frazier "for strong leadership to stand up for the moral values that made this country what it is."  And General Electric released a statement saying the company has "no tolerance for hate, bigotry or racism."  "We strongly condemn the violent extremism in Charlottesville over the weekend," the company said.  It added that GE chairman Jeff Immelt will remain on Trump's manufacturing group, citing an importance for GE to "participate in the discussion on how to drive growth and productivity in the U.S."  Related: New York Post says Trump 'badly missed the mark' on Charlottesville  Under Armour CEO Kevin Plank said through his company's Twitter account that the company supports "love and unity."  "We are saddened by #Charlottesville," Plank's statement read. "There is no place for racism or discrimination in this world."  Intel CEO Brian Krzanich tweeted that "there should be no hesitation in condemning hate speech or white supremacy by name. #Intel asks all our country's leadership to do the same."  Richard Trumka, the president of the AFL-CIO, said Sunday that leaders, starting with the president, should acknowledge Charlottesville for what it was: "domestic terrorism rooted in bigotry."  And Dow Chemical Chairman and CEO Andrew Liveris said there is "no room for hatred, racism or bigotry" at his company.  Plank, Krzanich, Trumka and Liveris are also on the president's manufacturing council. None said whether they would stay on.  Stephen Schwarzman, the chairman, CEO and co-founder of Blackstone, said "Bigotry, hatred and extremism are an affront to core American values and have no place in this country."  Schwartzman chairs the White House's Strategy and Policy Forum, a group of business executives who were tapped to advise Trump on the economy. He did not address his involvement in his statement, but cited Trump's newest remarks about Charlottesville on Monday.  "As the President said today, I believe we need to find a path forward to heal the wounds left by this tragedy and address its underlying causes," he said.  Pepsi CEO Indra Nooyi, a member of Trump's economic advisory group, tweeted Sunday that she was "heartbroken by the violence in #Charlottesville."  "Hate and intolerance are a betrayal of what we stand for as Americans," she said.  --CNNMoney's Ahiza Garcia, Shen Lu and Tom Foster contributed to this story. 
