Apple's Tim Cook: I disagree with Trump on Charlottesville
Apple CEO Tim Cook says President Trump's response to the violence at a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville contradicts American values. In an email to Apple (AAPL, Tech30) employees on Wednesday night, Cook called for an "unequivocal" denouncement of hate and bigotry, rejecting Trump's widely criticized remarks on Charlottesville.  "I disagree with the president and others who believe that there is a moral equivalence between white supremacists and Nazis, and those who oppose them by standing up for human rights," Cook wrote. "Equating the two runs counter to our ideals as Americans."  Related: Trump's business panels collapse after president's remarks on Charlottesville  He announced Apple would donate $1 million each to the Southern Poverty Law Center and the Anti-Defamation League, describing them as groups working "to rid our country of hate."  And for every dollar that Apple employees donate to certain human rights groups through the end of September, the company will donate $2. Customers will also soon be able to use iTunes to support the Southern Poverty Law Center.  Cook's comments come after top CEOs abandoned Trump in the wake of his remarks on Charlottesville, leading to the collapse of the president's two business advisory groups. Cook had previously participated in a couple tech summits hosted by Trump.     The president's relationship with Silicon Valley has been tense from the start, marked by clashes over Trump's travel ban, the rollback of protections for transgender students and the decision to withdraw from the Paris climate accord.   Related: How Corporate America responded to the violence in Charlottesville  Some tech companies have responded to the Charlottesville violence by cracking down on neo-Nazi sites and hate groups.   Cook acknowledged that "these have been dark days," urging Apple employees to "all stand together on this one point — that we are all equal."  "What occurred in Charlottesville has no place in our country," he said. "Hate is a cancer, and left unchecked it destroys everything in its path."  -- Rob Mclean contributed to this report. 
White House: Technology council is going 'full steam ahead'
Two of President Trump's business advisory councils imploded on Wednesday as CEOs resigned over his response to violent white nationalist rallies in Charlottesville. But another White House initiative, The American Technology Council, remains intact. The tech panel is made up of government employees and has no members from private industry.  A White House official said Wednesday that the American Technology Council will go "full steam ahead on its work."  Some prominent executives, 18 to be exact, attended a summit hosted by the tech council in June. They included Amazon's (AMZN, Tech30) Jeff Bezos, Apple's (AAPL, Tech30) Tim Cook and Microsoft's (MSFT, Tech30) Satya Nadella.  Currently, no in-person summits or meetings with corporate executives are scheduled, the White House official said. But the council may choose to reach out for advice or assistance on specific issues -- such as beefing up the federal government's cybersecurity.  "The council will continue to occasionally consult with the private sector on specific issue areas," the official said.  Related: What CEOs are saying about Trump  But Rashad Robinson -- the executive director of racial equality group Color for Change -- said he doesn't want tech companies to answer those calls.  Color for Change was part of an online effort to encourage CEOs to part ways with Trump after Charlottesville. Two councils -- a manufacturing council and an economic policy forum -- were dissolved on Wednesday as business leaders rushed to distance themselves from the president.  Robinson called that a victory.  Robinson told CNNMoney his group is "increasingly concerned about tech companies," because extremist groups can use the internet to spread their hateful ideology.  He wants tech CEOs to make it clear they will not engage with the American Technology Council in the future.  Related: Stunning rebuke for the CEO president  CNNMoney reached out to the companies that sent representatives to the June technology summit.  Only one, Akamai, a cloud delivery platform, confirmed it will continue to work with the White House's tech initiative, but said it has "no tolerance for racism, hatred or bigotry."  Several other companies declined to comment on their plans. The rest did not return a request for comment.  A few tech CEOs that attended the June meeting have spoken out publicly against bigotry.  Apple's Tim Cook called on all Americans to "stand against" the "terror of white supremacy." But Apple declined to comment on whether the company would engage with the tech council if called on.  Intel CEO Brian Krzanich -- who rescinded his membership in the Manufacturing Jobs Initiative in response to Charlottesville -- called on the administration to "set scoring political points aside and focus on what is best for the nation as a whole." It wasn't clear if he intended to work with the tech council in the future. Intel (INTC, Tech30) did not immediately respond to comment.  The tech council was created via an executive order in May to give "advice to the president related to [tech] policy decisions."  --CNNMoney's Jill Disis and Noah Gray contributed to this report. 
How Corporate America responded to the violence in Charlottesville
Corporate America is denouncing the violent, racist Charlottesville rally in unequivocal terms. Many big brands have released statements condemning the deadly violence that broke out on Saturday at the white supremacist rally, which ended in a terror attack.  GoDaddy   Domain name provider GoDaddy said on Sunday that it will no longer serve The Daily Stormer, a white supremacist and neo-Nazi website that published a derogatory story about Heather Heyer, a victim of the violence in Charlottesville. We informed The Daily Stormer that they have 24 hours to move the domain to another provider, as they have violated our terms of service.  "We have informed The Daily Stormer that they have 24 hours to move the domain to another provider, as they have violated our terms of service. If no action is taken after 24 hours, we will cancel the service," GoDaddy (GDDY) said in a statement. "Given their latest article comes on the immediate heels of a violent act, we believe this type of article could incite additional violence, which violates our terms of service."  Related: Should web-hosting companies restrict who's on their platforms?  Google   Google Domains became The Daily Stormer's website registrar after the site was booted off GoDaddy. But Google (GOOGL, Tech30) soon ditched The Daily Stormer as well.  A spokesperson said, "we are cancelling Daily Stormer's registration with Google Domains for violating our terms of service."  Tiki Brand  Some of the white nationalists who marched in Charlottesville over the weekend were carrying tiki torches, prompting the company to distance itself from the violent rally.  "Tiki Brand is not associated in any way with the events that took place in Charlottesville and are deeply saddened and disappointed," the brand said in a statement on Monday. "We do not support their message or the use of our products in this way."  Related: Neo-Nazi website is back online with Russian help  Detroit Red Wings  The Detroit Red Wings responded harshly to those white supremacist protesters who carried signs with a modified version of the hockey team's logo.  "The Detroit Red Wings vehemently disagree with and are not associated in any way with the event taking place today in Charlottesville, Va.," the hockey team said on Saturday.  "The Red Wings believe that Hockey is for everyone and we celebrate the great diversity of our fan base and our nation. We are exploring every possible legal action as it pertains to the misuse of our logo in this disturbing demonstration."  AirBnB  AirBnB co-founder Brian Chesky said people who participated in white nationalist protests were removed from AirBnB units.  "We require those who are members of the Airbnb community to accept people regardless of their race, religion, national origin, ethnicity, disability, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, or age," Chesky said.  Related: White House business panels collapse as CEOs flee Trump  "When we see people pursuing behavior on the platform that would be antithetical to the Airbnb Community Commitment, we take appropriate action. In this case, last week, we removed these people from Airbnb."  Chesky said he learned last month that white supremacists were using AirBnB to arrange lodging and coordinate events in Charlottesville.  PayPal   Franz Paasche, head of Corporate Affairs and Communications at PayPal (PYPL, Tech30), wrote in a blog post on Tuesday that the digital payments platform works "to ensure that our services are not used to accept payments or donations for activities that promote hate, violence or racial intolerance. This includes organizations that advocate racist views, such as the KKK, white supremacist groups or Nazi groups."  Related: PayPal is quietly cracking down on white-supremacist accounts  The company added that it will "limit or end customer relationships and prohibit the use of our services by those that meet the thresholds of violating our policy."  GoFundMe  A spokesman for the crowdfunding platform GoFundMe told CNN Tech that, "white nationalists and neo-nazis cannot use GoFundMe to promote hatred, racism, or intolerance."  "If a campaign violates GoFundMe's terms of service, we'll remove it from the platform."  The company said it has shut down multiple campaigns to raise money for James Fields, who was accused of driving the car that hit Heyer.  Facebook  Facebook (FB, Tech30) CEO Mark Zuckerberg condemned white supremacist groups in a post to his Facebook page.  "The last few days have been hard to process. I know a lot of us have been asking where this hate comes from," said Zuckerberg. "As a Jew, it's something I've wondered much of my life. It's a disgrace that we still need to say that neo-Nazis and white supremacists are wrong -- as if this is somehow not obvious."  Facebook has taken down a number of white supremacist Facebook Groups since the Charlottesville rally.  Apple  Apple (AAPL, Tech30) CEO Tim Cook said President Trump's response to the violence in Charlottesville contradicts American values.  "I disagree with the president and others who believe that there is a moral equivalence between white supremacists and Nazis, and those who oppose them by standing up for human rights," Cook wrote in an email to employees. "Equating the two runs counter to our ideals as Americans."  He announced Apple would donate $1 million each to the Southern Poverty Law Center and the Anti-Defamation League, describing them as groups working "to rid our country of hate."  And for every dollar that Apple employees donate to certain human rights groups through the end of September, the company will donate $2. Customers will also soon be able to use iTunes to support the Southern Poverty Law Center.  -- Kaya Yurieff contributed reporting.  
Apple is on the hunt for original TV shows
Apple is finally getting serious about original TV programming. Two Apple (AAPL, Tech30) executives have been meeting with Hollywood agents and producers to hear pitches about possible shows for Apple to buy, according to two producers who have met with them.  The execs, Jamie Erlicht and Zack Van Amburg, were hired from Sony Pictures Television in June to oversee Apple's video programming.  These pitch meetings have placed Apple in direct competition with Netflix (NFLX, Tech30), HBO and other distributors.  Some producers are eager to work with Apple, sensing a first-mover advantage. Others have a lot of questions about how Apple will distribute its shows. When "House of Cards" debuted on Netflix, marking the streaming service's entrance into original programming, the service already had a large catalog of licensed programming.  Apple doesn't have that -- but it does have iPhones in hundreds of millions of hands.  The meetings were first reported by The Wall Street Journal on Wednesday. Apple is said to be budgeting about $1 billion to acquire and produce original TV shows over the next year, according to the Journal.  Apple declined to comment.  Related: Not made for TV: GoPro's failed media business  Apple has tiptoed into original content in recent months with mixed results. Its reality show, Planet of the Apps, has been widely panned. The company is also producing a scripted TV series starring Dr. Dre.  "We have put our toe in the water with doing some original content for Apple Music," Tim Cook, Apple's CEO, said on an earnings call in January. "We're learning a lot about the original content business and thinking about ways that we could play at that."  With a $1 billion commitment and TV execs on staff, Apple stands to be a bigger presence in Hollywood. But even that budget is no match for potential rivals like Netflix., which has committed $6 billion for original content this year.  Apple's move into original programming is part of a broader shift in the industry. Tech companies are looking to differentiate their products, sell subscriptions and potentially attract lucrative TV ad dollars.  Facebook (FB, Tech30), Snapchat (SNAP), GoPro (GPRO, Tech30) and Google (GOOGL, Tech30)'s YouTube have all started investing in original shows. Netflix and Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) are the furthest along in this effort. 
Your CNN MoneyStream daily brief
Six people have now left President Trump's manufacturing council... ...as backlash deepens over the president's remarks on the tragic events in Charlottesville.  Richard Trumka, a prominent manufacturing leader who heads the labor union AFL-CIO, said in a statement that he "cannot sit on a council for a president that tolerates bigotry and domestic terrorism."  Trumka was joined by Thea Lee, an economist who's previously also worked at the AFL-CIO.  Meanwhile, the CEOs who remain on White House business councils have faced increased calls to clarify where they stand. CNNMoney has reached out to each member of these panels, and detailed their responses.  New NAFTA, here we come?  Not quite. But Wednesday will officially mark the start of the Trump administration's renegotiation on the U.S.-Canada-Mexico trade pact. The President has previously called it "the worst trade deal maybe ever signed anywhere.  But a long road lies ahead: A new agreement isn't expected for more than at least a year, and even then, it involves about 14 steps that could be thrown off course by Congress, Mexico or Canada.  U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer laid out the Trump team's objectives last month, with priority number one named as lowering the U.S. trade deficit with Mexico.  Google protests? Eh, maybe not  Those who oppose Google's decision to fire engineer James Damore had initially planned to congregate outside Google's offices on Saturday.  But on Tuesday, Jack Posobiec, who organized the events, said in a statement that he was calling them off due to "alt-left terrorist threats."  Posobiec maintains that the rallies are peaceful opposition to what he views as censorship.  Apple's "$1 billion war chest"  That's how much Apple has put aside to produce original content in the next year, sources tell The Wall Street Journal.  According to the Journal, Apple (AAPL, Tech30) may roll out 10 new TV shows -- to be offered either via Apple Music or an entirely new video-streaming service.  The foray wouldn't be shocking: Apple recently hired two longtime Hollywood executives.  As of early Wednesday morning, Apple hadn't commented on the report -- but that likely won't stop the media from buzzing over how it'd fare against Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) or Amazon (AMZN, Tech30).  Tip of the Day  Your 20s are a great time to start getting into good habits about money, writes the Motley Fool's Maurie Backman.  Check out these 10 financial moves to make in your 20s, from creating an emergency fund to deciding on graduate school. 
