Will Republicans kill the estate tax?
There will be plenty of fights among Republicans over the details of tax reform ... if they're lucky enough to get that far. But on one measure there's likely to be unanimous support: Repealing the federal estate tax, or what critics derisively refer to as the "death" tax.  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady calls it "un-American."  "You work your whole life to build up a nest egg or a family-owned business or family farm. Then you pass away. ... Uncle Sam can swoop in and take over 40% of everything you've earned over a certain amount. It's just wrong," Brady said last week at an event promoting tax reform.  But that assertion overlooks a few key details about the estate tax, which the Congressional Budget Office projects will raise between $25 billion and $34 billion a year over the next decade.  1. It only affects 0.2% of all estates today   Only those estates worth more than $5.49 million this year (or $10.98 million for married couples) even have to file estate tax returns. Then only about half of those end up being taxable after factoring in deductions and credits.  This year, the Tax Policy Center estimates that 11,310 estates will have to file a return, but just 5,460 will owe any federal tax.  Plus, the 40% tax rate that Brady mentioned only applies to the portion of an estate above the $5.49 million exemption level ($10.98 million for couples).  Related: Battle lines in tax reform fight drawn as Democrats lay out their demands  The federal estate tax used to be harder to avoid but even then it never touched most people.  Back in 2000, Americans could only exempt $675,000 at death, and those with taxable estates were subject to a 55% rate. That year, 52,000 estates ended up being taxable, according to the IRS, or about 2.2% of all estates.  2. Only a tiny fraction of family farms and businesses are affected   The Tax Policy Center estimates just 80 family-owned businesses and farms will have to pay any estate tax in 2017.  The Congressional Research Service projects a higher number for any given year -- 159 -- but notes they represent less than 3% of taxable estates.  What's more, estate tax law offers options to significantly lower the value of a family business or farm for estate tax purposes.  Beyond that, "with a small amount of tax planning and for a relatively small amount of money you can avoid the estate tax," said Howard Gleckman, a senior fellow at the Tax Policy Center.  For instance, he said, parents running a family business can take out a particular kind of life insurance policy equal to the estimated amount of their estate's tax liability, and the proceeds from that policy can cover the tax bill when they die.  3. Some money in big estates is never taxed   Critics often portray the estate tax as a way to take a second or even third tax bite out of the apple.  That is, you made the money, paid income or investment tax on it while you were alive and then it's counted as part of your taxable estate, so is subject to tax again.  That definitely can happen, but usually only if you do zero estate planning.  But even in that instance, there's still a built-in allowance in estate tax law that ensures some money you leave your heirs will never be taxed. It's called a step-up in basis.  Related: How tax reform could hit charitable giving  Say you bought shares in a company eons ago for $50 a pop. You never sell but bequeath them to your children.  When you die, the shares are trading at $150, for a gain of $100 per share. That gain will be tax-free forever.  You never paid tax on that $100 gain in your lifetime. And neither will your kids. That's because they get a "step up" in their cost basis. That is, if and when they sell those shares, their cost basis will be treated as $150, the value of the stock when you died. So they will only owe tax on the capital gains accrued above that amount.  It's possible that if lawmakers repeal the estate tax they may also repeal the step-up rule, at least partly. In fact, President Trump at one point proposed doing both during his campaign for estates worth more than $5 million. 
U.S. companies still hoarding cash overseas
Cash, as they say, is king. And Wall Street is once again starting to salivate about the possibility that President Trump will give the giants of Corporate America an opportunity to return the royal flush of cash they have stashed overseas back to the United States. The nearly 200 point jump in the Dow on Tuesday was the best market gain since April, and many experts attributed the surge to a Politico story that outlined plans by Republicans in the White House and Capitol Hill for major tax reform.  In particular, investors are hoping that companies will be able to bring back, or repatriate, cash that's currently held abroad mainly for tax purposes -- i.e. avoiding higher U.S. corporate taxes.  This was the key line in the Politico story that seems to have gotten investors and traders excited.  Among the decisions that the White House, Treasury and congressional leaders have settled on is that any tax proposal will require U.S. companies to bring back earnings from overseas at a one-time low tax rate, a favorite proposal of the business community known as repatriation.  Stocks did slip a bit Wednesday following Tuesday's strong rally, but look at the bigger picture. The market is still enjoying solid gains this year -- and they are being led by many of the companies that stand to benefit the most from Trump tax reform.  Ironically, tech firms are surging...even though many Silicon Valley leaders have expressed serious concerns about Trump's stances on immigration, climate change and his controversial comments about neo-Nazi violence in Charlottesville.  Apple (AAPL, Tech30) has $261 billion in cash on its balance sheet, and CFO Luca Maestri told investors earlier this month that nearly all of it is being held overseas. Google (GOOGL, Tech30) parent Alphabet, Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30), Cisco (CSCO, Tech30) and Oracle (ORCL, Tech30) collectively have $364 billion in cash.  So if you're keeping score at home, that's $625 billion in cash for just five companies.  Related: Battle lines in tax reform fight as Democrats lay out demands  Many of these tech stocks are skyrocketing this year too. Apple is the Dow's best performer, up nearly 40%. Oracle has soared 30%. Alphabet and Microsoft have each gained nearly 20%.  "Repatriation has been considered an inevitable part of any tax legislation," wrote Mike O'Rourke, chief market strategist with JonesTrading in a report Tuesday.  And there are plenty of other companies sitting on a lot of cash that would gain from any Trump tax changes.  O'Rourke noted that Big Pharma giants Pfizer (PFE), Merck (MRK) and Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), industrial conglomerate GE (GE), consumer products leader Procter & Gamble (PG) and oil king ExxonMobil (XOM) also have a big chunk of cash overseas.  Even Facebook (FB, Tech30), a relatively young company, has $35.5 billion in cash.  But O'Rourke added that "the government is looking towards Main Street to pay for corporate tax cuts while rewarding the very corporations that have avoided taxes."  It remains to be seen whether or not Trump tries to attach some strings to any tax reform plans, though.  Will he try and convince companies to use cash they bring back to America to hire more workers and build more factories/manufacturing plants here at home?  Many market strategists wonder if companies will actually use their cash for something that could boost jobs and the broader economy.  It's possible that cash hoarders will reward their executives and investors with dividend increases, share buybacks and other measures that could boost stock prices but not help average Americans who have little, if any, money in the stock market.  There's also the problem of a still sluggish global economy. Until sales pick up more dramatically, companies may continue to refrain from putting their cash to work.  Related: Trump now says he wants to tax the rich  Richard Lane, senior vice president at credit rating agency Moody's, noted in a report last month that companies aren't putting as much toward capital spending or acquisitions, even though they have a lot of cash.  And analysts at S&P Global Ratings pointed out that cash is only one part of the balance sheet equation. Companies are borrowing a lot more money as well.  "While record cash balances make for good headlines, the more important story, in our view, is that total debt outstanding has risen roughly $2.2 trillion, to a record $5.8 trillion in the past five years," the S&P analysts wrote.  In other words, cash is only king if companies can use it for something more productive than paying back their creditors. 
Samsung's Galaxy Note 8 phone aims to rebuild consumer trust
Samsung is breathing new life into its Note smartphone brand nearly one year after its massive recalling of fire-prone phones. The South Korean tech giant revealed the Galaxy Note 8 at an event in New York on Wednesday.  The device, which will cost $929.99 for an unlocked device, will hit stores on September 15. Pre-sales for the Note 8 will start in the U.S. on Thursday.  The Note 8 has many of the same features that already exist on Samsung's (SSNLF) phones like the Galaxy S8 and S8+. It touts an infinity screen, no physical home button and a finger print scanner on the back of the device.  Although the Note 8 has some of its own unique features -- especially when it comes to the camera and the stylus -- this is not a revolutionary iteration. It's clear the company wants to get this latest version right; rather than throw new features against the wall to see what sticks. It's also working hard to regain consumer trust.   This is the first smartphone in the Note series since Samsung's exploding Note 7 battery debacle last year.  Related: Samsung's profit on track to beat Apple  Issues with the Note 7, which stemmed from complaints of devices catching fire while charging, began shortly after its launch last summer. Some replacement phones also overheated. The recall cost the company more than $5 billion.  "With [innovation] comes stumbles sometimes, and that's what happened last fall," Drew Blackard, Samsung senior director of product marketing, said ahead of Wednesday's event. "Part of Samsung's recommitment was to innovate on process and quality, in addition to just technology."  The company said the Note 8's battery went through an eight-step battery safety check process and underwent additional testing from a third-party safety company.  "What we've done internally is ensure from design to factory floor that the battery is safe," said Suzanne De Silva, Samsung director of product strategy and marketing. "However, we [went] one step further for the launch of the device. We worked with UL [Underwriters Laboratories] for them to validate the safety of this battery."  Perhaps the biggest update to the Note 8 is an improved camera -- and along with it, new photo editing tools. Samsung said its the first ever smartphone with two rear cameras that include optical image stabilization on both the wide-angle and telephoto lenses.  Meanwhile, a new Live Focus feature lets users change the "bokeh effect" before and after a photo is taken. Bokeh occurs when the background behind a subject is blurred. It has been become an increasingly popular tool on the iPhone 7 Plus, where it's dubbed "Depth Effect." However, iPhone users can't edit the effect after the photo has been taken.  Related: Is your TV an eyesore? Samsung wants to change that  When set to Dual Capture mode, users can also use both rear cameras to take pictures at the same time: a close-up shot and a wide-angle photo that shows the whole background.  Samsung is getting more playful with its messaging tools, too. Live Message, similar to Apple's (AAPL, Tech30) feature that lets users draw handwritten messages, lets users write messages and add special effects on top of photos. It can then be shared as a GIF.  The Note 8's S Pen stylus includes a finer tip and more pressure sensitivity. Other features include a multitasking tool called App Pair, allowing users to pre-pair apps so they launch together. This means you could program the calendar app and the phone dial to open simultaneously in split screen.  Beyond safety concerns, Samsung's Note 8 will face stiff competition from the newest version of the iPhone, which is expected this fall.  "After last year's debacle for the Note 7, [Samsung] cannot take too many risks," said Thomas Husson, principal analyst at research firm Forrester. "But at the same time, they have no choice but to introduce very innovative features if they want to use the short window of opportunity to differentiate from the upcoming new iPhone this fall."  The Note 8 will be offered in black and gray to start. Blue and gold options will be added in the future. 
Sarahah is the latest anonymous app under fire
Yik Yak. Whisper. Secret. Now, Sarahah. In the world of anonymous apps, things never stay nice for long. Sarahah is hoping to change that.  In mid-July, the buzzy new anonymous messaging app beat out mainstays like Snapchat and Facebook in the Apple App Store.  Sarahah, which launched in Saudi Arabia in November 2016, invites members to leave anonymous messages on other users' profiles. But unlike its competitors, the messaging tool includes a reminder to "leave a constructive message :)" -- which the company hopes will encourage positivity.  The app, with a name that means "honesty" in Arabic, was originally intended as a way for corporate employees to offer constructive feedback on their managers' performance — kind of like a suggestions box.  But the built-in cue to play nice isn't entirely working. Sarahah is already embroiled in a debate about what anonymity helps on the Internet and what it hurts.  Related: Instagram worst social media app for young people's mental health  "There's really nothing new about what this is doing," says David Ryan Polgar, digital citizenship expert and head of trust and safety for Friendbase, a virtual world for teens.  "The larger point that we need to decide when designing these environments is pretty philosophical — at our core, 'how are people? If we leave them to their own devices, are they going to be toxic online or kind?'"  Founder Zain al-Abidin Tawfiq says the app has taken several precautions against cyberbullying. For example, it has a feature that filters keywords and prevents certain messages from being sent. It's also added a tool to allow users to block accounts.  "We're taking this as a serious issue, and we're focused on [building] new features," he says. "I don't want users to stray from the goal of Sarahah."  As of August 2017, the app has more than 62 million users. Tawfiq told CNN Tech the app experienced massive growth among younger users after teens started posting Sarahah messages on Snapchat.  "I told myself in November, 'You'll be satisfied with 1,000 messages' and then I'll call it a success," he said. "But now, we're getting close -- day by day -- to 1 billion messages sent." #Sarahah in a month:App Store #1 in 30 countries including USA, UK & Francemore than 1/4 billion visitorsmore than 1 billion page views  Other social media networks have struggled to combat cyberbullying. Under pressure from advocates and users, Twitter has pledged to crack down on harassment. It's also introduced new filter tools, better moderation and a human team reviewing reports of harassment.  Meanwhile, anonymous apps advocates claim the platforms' anonymity allows for "authenticity"; critics say it opens the door for cyberbullies.  But it's hardly the first app to go down this route. Here's a look at some of the apps that came before.  Whisper   Whisper -- one of the most well-known annoymous apps -- has a simple premise: Users post photos with captions divulging a "secret" for others to "heart," or Like. Some users post random thoughts and embarrassing stories from their childhood; others have shared stories of sexual assault or abuse.  Although vague reports surfaced in 2014 questioning the app's security, Whisper CEO Michael Hayward told CNNMoney the following: "We've set the tone from the very beginning to be positive. We don't tolerate the bad stuff."  Even as the wave of anonymous apps crests and crashes, Whisper persists thanks to the app's focus on comment moderation via both artificial intelligence tools and a human moderation team. In 2015, the company said it had more than 20 million active users, but this July, Whisper laid off 20 percent of its staff to cut costs. Whisper has raised over $61 million in funding, in addition to ad sale revenue.  After School   After School is perhaps the least known anonymous app due to its restricted user base: high school students only. The demographic is encouraged to post updates to their school's "board." But parents and teachers can't log on to regulate what's happening.  The app, which debuted in 2014, was originally rated for "12+" in the Apple App Store. However, Apple requested After School update its rating to "17+" after two students posted gun threats. The app has since partnered with organizations like Crisis Text Line and Stopbulling.gov.  When it comes to anonymity and digital identity, Jeff Collins -- vice president of the app -- says "nothing is black and white."  "We have a very specific audience," he says. "We're not [about] college students, we're not [about] adults. We look at this as though we have a responsibility to monitor the feed, take things down and essentially curate. We want to keep things positive."  According to After School, the app is in use in more than 85% of U.S. high schools.  Ask.fm   Ask.fm, which launched in June 2010, asks users to pose questions and leave anonymous comments. But a series of teen suicides in both the U.S. and the UK has brought attention to Ask.fm's lack of protection against harassment.  In 2013, former British prime minister David Cameron called for a boycott of "irresponsible websites."  In late 2016, Ask.fm announced a "rebranding" that positioned the app as a Q&A platform — one with more than 150 million active users today.  Secret   Secret, which shot onto the scene in 2014 and quickly gained popularity, is among a handful of anonymous apps no longer available. Although Whisper connects users to a larger network of both strangers and friends, Secret's focus was on sharing with the people who know you. Users could divulge "secret" stories as text over photos.  Its controversies were a lot like Whisper, too. In 2014, reports said Secret posts weren't entirely anonymous. The app rushed to fix the privacy error but failed to control another major issue: cyberbullying.  Before the app shut down in 2015, tech blogs and anti-harassment groups criticized Secret, and a Brazilian court even ordered Apple and Google to remove the app from its app stores. Founder David Byttow acknowledged Secret's anonymity had been "the ultimate double-edged sword."  Yik Yak   In the footsteps of Secret came Yik Yak, the college and high school "virtual bulletin board" sensation. After launching in 2013, it was valued at $400 million.   But after a series of high-profile incidents of online abuse — including one case at the University of Mary Washington that ended in murder — the app was continually scrutinized for encouraging malicious behavior.  In March 2016, Yik Yak introduced "user handles" to combat the problems associated with anonymity, but the move wasn't enough. The app announced in April 2017 that it was shutting down  Formspring   Long before the others, there was Formspring. Launched in 2009, it allowed users to anonymously post questions -- from "what's your favorite color?" to more salacious ones -- on people's profiles. (Ask.fm is often considered a Formspring copycat).  After several teen suicides were linked to Formspring in 2013, the app was bought by Twoo, an online dating app with a troubled history of its own. Formspring shut down in 2013.  Update: This article has been updated to add a comment from After School. 
Amazon eyes yet another industry: education
Amazon has already disrupted traditional retail and its recent acquisition of Whole Foods suggests it could change the way we grocery shop, too. But following in the footsteps of other tech giants like Google and Apple, the company is also quietly coming for the classroom.  Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) on Wednesday announced a new tool for teachers that helps design a writing curriculum for elementary students.  The tool, called TenMarks writing, is aimed at fourth to sixth graders for now and Amazon hopes to roll it out to older students soon. It includes short writing exercises, teacher resources like lesson plans and assignments, and a digital assistant that personalizes feedback to individual students. It'll help them write a paper and gives suggestions, like flagging when they've used the same word a few times.  Related: Amazon takes on Geek Squad with new service  The curriculum, which costs $4 per student for a year, has already been tested in several classrooms in the U.S. over the past year.  Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) acquired TenMarks, an online education company focused on math, in 2013. The company's other educational offerings include Amazon Inspire, which has free resources for teachers and educators such as lesson plans and worksheets.  The move is the latest effort from a big tech company to get into the education space. In 2016, U.S. sales of mobile PCs and tablets purchased for kindergarten to 12th grade classrooms rose 18% to 12.6 million units, according to Futuresource Consulting. Google Chromebooks accounted for 58% of those sales last year and continue to lead the market.  Related: Why Google, Apple and Microsoft are battling for education  Apple's new $329 iPad was also a hit in education during the second quarter of this year.  "Apple came back with a vengeance in the second quarter, shipping nearly 1 million units into kindergarten through 12th grade, while Chrome stalled a bit," said Linn Huang, research director at market intelligence firm IDC.  Earlier this year, Microsoft unveiled a new and cheaper Surface laptop and a special version of Windows 10 for students.  "Devices like laptops or tablets are a large and clear market for tech companies because any school-based technology needs a hardware platform to operate," said Thomas Arnett, senior researcher at the Clayton Christensen Institute, a nonprofit think tank.  "However, learning software and platforms for accessing online materials are the technologies that are going to really transform education," he said.  But the challenge is getting those technologies right and understanding teachers' needs. 
