Android Oreo is Google's new mobile OS
We finally have a name for Google's latest mobile operating system: Android Oreo. Android Oreo, previously codenamed Android O, was announced in March. The software has been in preview for a few months so developers could update their apps.  Android Oreo will first be available on Google devices, including the Pixel and Nexus lines. The launch date has not yet been announced.  The new operating system name continues Google's tradition of naming its Android updates after sweets. Previous names include Nougat, Marshmallow, and Lollipop.  This isn't the first time Google has partnered with a brand. It teamed up with Kit Kat in 2013 to launch a version of the same name.  Google unveiled the name Android Oreo to the public during the total solar eclipse on Monday.  The company also confirmed to CNN Tech that there will be a limited run of Android-themed cookies from Oreo.   The new OS will include updates to what Google (GOOG) calls "vitals," including battery and security improvements. For example, Google Play Protect is an anti-malware feature that alerts you when you have a malicious app on your phone.  App badging is also coming to Android Oreo so you can see pending notifications. The notification panel itself has received a slight redesign. New emoji will also be available with an updated look: It's tiny icons more in line with Apple's.  Related: Google is still trying to kill the Echo and Siri  Meanwhile, you'll be able to watch videos while using other apps on your phone or tablet with its picture-in-picture feature.  There's no official date for when other Android-powered devices will receive the update. According to Google's numbers, most Android devices -- about 85% -- aren't even on Android Nougat, last year's release.  Android is notoriously slow at rolling out device updates because of the number of manufacturers, phone carries and other third-party companies involved in seeing through a new release. But Google said Android Oreo and future versions will get new updates faster.  Apple's latest mobile update -- iOS 11 -- is expected to launch this fall. It will feature peer-to-peer payments, upgrades to Siri, new Live Photo effects and a way to block notifications while driving. 
At age 78, inventor tackles something personal: hearing aids
Like many people who need hearing aids, Peter Sprague didn't rush out to get a pair once his hearing started to suffer. "It's a billboard that says you're old -- with all the concomitant things that go with being old," he said.  One in three people in the U.S. between 65 and 74 years old has hearing loss. But only about 20% of those in need get hearing aids due both to the stigma and price. In fact, those who need hearing aids wait about 10 years before seeking help.  When Sprague was ready to use aids, instead of getting morose, he wanted to make a change.  Sprague, 78, founded HearGlass in 2014. His technology incorporates hearing amplification devices into glasses frames.  HearGlass, now a fourth-generation prototype, has a purpose that's threefold: Eliminate the stigma associated with the devices -- they look more like a fashion accessory -- improve the quality of sound and offer an affordable product.  Sprague has had a colorful career as an inventor and businessman. He spent 30 years as the chairman of National Semiconductor and was a co-owner of British carmaker Aston Martin. He even ran for a U.S. congressional seat against Ed Koch in 1970 (he lost).  But one of the biggest concerns he had with standard hearing aids was how badly they distorted audio. He wanted to do something about it.  "We decided to hide [the hearing aid] in plain sight," he said.  Related: Tech versus Taboos: STDs  Sprague isn't the only inventor who has embedded tech into glasses frames. His work follows in the footsteps of Google Glass and Snapchat's Spectacles. Other manufacturers have even explored integrating hearing amplification into frames, too.  But Sprague said he's able to build in a better high-fidelity audio system into eyeglass frames.  "I literally did not go to concerts anymore," said Sprague, a music aficionado.  Traditional hearing aids provide amplification in lower frequency ranges to help with voice understanding, but not the full range of sound that speech and music encompasses.  HearGlass has directional microphones to focus sound for clarity in a noisy room. It also touts a rechargeable battery, Bluetooth and WiFi capabilities. In addition, the company is developing a "What" button that lets users replay the last three seconds of audio.  All functions are user-controlled, including adjustable amplifications and frequencies. Ear buds are attached to the frame.  The company has attracted some big names. Janet Baker, managing director of HearGlass, is the cofounder of Dragon Systems, which developed the speech recognition dictation technology incorporated into Apple (AAPL, Tech30)'s Siri, as well as other products and applications.  "Smaller isn't always better," said Janet Baker, managing director of HearGlass. "[Regular hearing aids] are much harder to handle, especially for people who have diminished tactile capabilities."  Related: Tech versus Taboos: Addiction  Devices average $2,300 per hearing aid -- and most people purchase two. HearGlass hasn't yet determined pricing but said it will be "substantially" less expensive than traditional hearing devices.  Sprague considers HearGlass a personal amplification device but it could fall into a new category of over-the-counter hearing aids. Congress passed the Over-the-Counter Hearing Aid Act in August, a bid to increase access to affordable hearing devices.  Marshall Chasin, an audiologist who studies the intersection of music and hearing loss, believes manufacturers are getting closer to creating devices that meet the needs of today's users.  "The primary concern of aid manufacturers' ... has been speech clarity and not improved music listening. However, they've recently responded to the need for improved music listening," Chasin said. "We live in a society with music, sound effects on TV, and movies."  Some of the major hearing-aid companies that dominate the market are making improvements to help wearers hear a more dynamic range of sounds without distortion. For example, they've moved from 16-bit systems to 19-bit systems.  "Who knows why it's taken so long?" said Chasin, noting the technology has been available for decades.  In recent years, Apple has also worked with medical device makers to create iOS-compatible hearing aids. Now, more than 50 hearing aids work with iPhones.  Chasin said he's unsure if something like HearGlass could be a good alternative, questioning the placement of microphones within a frame instead of the ear.  "[But] I think there's a lot of importance to improving the cosmetics," said Chasin.  The company is working to bring its device to market. HearGlass is currently fundraising to build out the fifth version and launch broader testing of the devices.  "The one thing you can predict is that the world is going to get noisier and we're going to get older," Sprague said. 
JPMorgan gives $1 million to fight hate groups after Charlottesville
JPMorgan Chase is fighting back against hate groups by donating $1 million to nonprofits that expose extremists. The nation's largest bank announced on Monday that it is giving $1 million to be split equally by the Southern Poverty Law Center and the Anti-Defamation League.  The donations are part of an effort to address "deep divisions" in the U.S. following a violent white supremacist protest in Charlottesville, Virginia this month, the bank said.  "The events in Charlottesville have increased the urgency to confront hate, intolerance and discrimination wherever it exists," Peter Scher, JPMorgan's head of corporate responsibility, wrote in a memo to employees.  JPMorgan (JPM) said it has previously given to both groups, which the bank praised for "tracking, exposing and fighting hate groups and other extremist organizations across the country."  Founded in 1971, the Southern Poverty Law Center is a nonprofit legal group that fights bigotry, monitors hate groups and works to protect the most vulnerable members of society. The Anti-Defamation League, started in 1913, works to "fight anti-Semitism and all forms of hate."  "Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. reminded us that 'the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice.' But it will not bend on its own," JPMorgan's Scher wrote.  Related: Apple's Tim Cook: I disagree with Trump on Charlottesville  JPMorgan also said it plans to give $50,000 to support the Charlottesville Area Community Foundation.  JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon joined a chorus of corporate leaders in criticizing Trump's response to Charlottesville. "I strongly disagree with President Trump's reaction...There is no room for equivocation here," Dimon said last week in a memo to employees.  Trump's insistence that both hate groups and counter-protesters were to blame for the violence in Charlottesville led to the stunning collapse of the president's business councils last week.  Last week, Apple (AAPL, Tech30) CEO Tim Cook similarly announced plans to donate $1 million each to the Southern Poverty Law Center and the Anti-Defamation League. 21st Century Fox  (FOXA)CEO James Murdoch, the son of Rupert Murdoch, also pledged $1 million to the ADL.  In September, JPMorgan plans to launch a special campaign to match two-for-one employee donations to a range of human and civil rights groups. The bank said it will give up to an additional $1 million.  "We won't be indifferent to the forces that would tear our country apart. The ties that bind us are too strong," the JPMorgan memo said. 
Popular YouTube artist uses AI to record new album
A popular YouTube artist has an unusual collaborator on her new album -- artificial intelligence. Pop artist Taryn Southern, who appeared on American Idol in 2004, created the lyrics and melodies for "I AM AI" but left most of the other work to software programs.  The album's first song "Break Free," which was released on Monday, was developed with the help of startup Amper Music. Amper is one of several AI music services Southern is working with on the album, which will debut later this year.  Southern has only basic piano skills, so she turned to the program to deliver the instrumental part of the song. The AI developed the harmonies, chords and sequences.  "In a funny way, I have a new song-writing partner who doesn't get tired and has this endless knowledge of music making," Southern told CNN Tech. "But I feel like I get to own my vision; I iterate and choose what I like and don't like. There's a lot more control."  Southern still worked with a producer on her vocals, but the rest of the song relied on Amper's software. She gave the program some guidelines, such as the speed of the song, key signature and preferred instruments. The program then produced a track for her to consider.  Although some fine-tuning was still necessary after the AI delivered its part, she arranged what was offered into verses and a chorus.  "In the past, I'd get into traps of writing songs in a given style or chords I know I like," Southern said. "When working with AI music, everything it spits at me is a surprise."  Related: Farmers turn to artificial intelligence to grow better tomatoes  Southern said writing the structure of the song is now 20 times faster than when relied on human musicians. She also previously used Apple's GarageBand platform.  Southern, known for cover songs and some original work, has been posting on YouTube for a decade. Her "Hot for Hillary" music video in 2007 has been viewed over 2.3 million times.  Her new work is an example of how AI can complement the human workforce, even as it automates some jobs. Southern said AI has made her more creative than ever.  "Human creators and human musicians are not going away," Amper Music CEO Drew Silverstein said. "We're making it so that you don't have to spend 10,000 hours and thousands of dollars buying equipment to share and express your ideas." 
