Facebook's minority workforce gains are "still disappointing"
Facebook's latest diversity report is stark reminder of the gulf between the goal of a multiracial workforce and the company's current monoculture. The social media giant published its 2017 diversity report on Wednesday. Facebook has increased its Hispanic and Black workforce by 1% each, to 5% and 3%, respectively. But when it comes to its tech workforce -- its coders, developers, and engineers -- the numbers are static at 3% and 1%, respectively.  Tech companies like Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) and Facebook (FB, Tech30) started voluntarily releasing the reports in 2014 to indicate their progress solving a long-standing problem in the technology industry. The effort is praised by diversity advocates as a means of benchmarking the company's workforce and identifying what efforts are working.  In three years, the reports have become more robust but the results are still largely underwhelming. They tend to contain language that's sterile and prescriptive. Most can be reduced to something like: "We aren't where we'd like to be." That's from Facebook's global director of diversity Maxine Williams in Wednesday's post about the new report.   Related: Uber will adjust salaries to ensure gender and racial pay equity  Williams touted the benefits of diversity ("Diversity helps us build better products, make better decisions and better serve our community) and reaffirmed the company's dedication ("We're committed to building a more diverse, inclusive Facebook -- and will remain committed.") She also announced new efforts, like inclusion training for managers and "Be The Ally" training to give employees "common language, tools and space to practice supporting others."  But as elite tech companies purport to hire only the best and the brightest, can it really be so difficult to move the needle even just a bit more?  Y-Vonne Hutchinson, founder of inclusion consultancy firm ReadySet, told CNN Tech that it is certainly harder for larger tech firms to show gains when it comes to diversity and inclusion efforts. Facebook now employs more than 11,200 workers, according to its latest EEOC filing. But she called the company's Black and Latino small demographic gains "still disappointing."  "At this rate, it would take them more than a decade to hire black and Latino technical talent on par with their graduation rates," said Hutchinson, adding that it's "telling" that Facebook's technical workforce remained stagnant when it comes to its Black and Hispanic workforce. "It is [also] telling that numbers for the same group in leadership has remained flat," she added. Black and Hispanic leadership numbers remained unchanged at 3% each.  Carissa Romero, partner at diversity consulting firm Paradigm, agrees with Hutchinson.  "We should absolutely hope and push for more," she said. "The lack of progress in the representation of Black and Latinx employees in tech is particularly notable. Approximately 18% of students that graduate with CS and computer engineering degrees are Black and Latinx. Tech companies should be asking themselves why these students aren't becoming a part of their tech workforce, and build the strategies and programs needed to close that gap."  Facebook made some marginal gains to its female workforce: 35% of its global workforce are women, up from 33%. In tech, its percentage of women has increased from 17% to 19%, and women makeup 27% of new graduate hires in engineering and 21% of new technical hires, Facebook said. Things aren't much better down Highway 101 at Google: Women make up 31% of its employees and 20% of its tech workers. 
What big fat bubble? Trump cheers as Dow hits 22,000
Almost exactly a year ago, Donald Trump dismissed the stock market's rise under President Barack Obama as a "big bubble." Now President Trump is cheering as the Dow reaches 22,000 for the first time. A surge in Apple stock carried the Dow past the milestone Wednesday right after the opening bell. The average is up more than 3,600 points since Trump's victory last November.  Wall Street's record-shattering performance is a bright spot for an administration mired in legislative failure and internal turmoil. Instead of warning about a market bubble, as Trump did repeatedly as a candidate, the White House now cites the stock records as affirmation of his policies.  Trump has broken with precedent by frequently bragging about the market, often on Twitter, and cheering for it to go much higher.  He did it again on Tuesday before trading even began.  "Stock Market could hit all-time high (again) 22,000 today," Trump tweeted 41 minutes before the opening bell on Wall Street -- and, it turned out, a day early.   The prediction was far from what Trump said during the first presidential debate last September -- that the market was a "big, fat, ugly bubble." And the market is much higher today than it was then.  By closing above 22,000 on Wednesday, the Dow has notched its sixth straight record and 49th since Trump was elected. CNNMoney's Fear & Greed index of market sentiment is firmly in "greed" mode, suggesting the gains could continue.  Apple, one of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow, lifted it over 22,000. Apple stock climbed 6% to an all-time high of its own because of optimism about the next version of the iPhone.  Related: Is this a sign that stocks are too hot?  Investor euphoria after the election seemed fueled by enthusiasm for the Trump agenda of tax cuts, deregulation and infrastructure spending. The stock surge became known as the "Trump rally."  But Wall Street is focused less on Washington now. Investors have dialed back their bets on the "massive" tax cuts Trump promised. The U.S. dollar soared after the election because of expectations that tax cuts and public works spending would accelerate the economy. Now the dollar has lost ground against other currencies five months in a row.  The market has shattered records despite Trump's political troubles, suggesting they are no longer intertwined. The Dow has hit 22,000 as deals with the sudden exits of White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus and communications director Anthony Scaramucci.  Instead of living and dying on politics, the market has been carried higher by big corporate profits. Apple, Boeing (BA), McDonald's (MCD) and Facebook (FB, Tech30) have all reported healthy earnings in recent days.  "Investors realize the real question is not whether there's turmoil in Washington, but what will it do to earnings from American companies? The answer is usually very little," David Kelly, chief global strategist at JPMorgan Funds, told CNNMoney before the market opened.  Related: Trump is playing with fire by obsessing over stocks  Wall Street is also thriving because of a Goldilocks effect: Economic growth is steady, but not in danger of overheating. That has allowed the Federal Reserve to gradually remove the easy-money policies that have supported stocks.  How long can stocks keep rising without taking a breather? It's been nearly 400 trading days since the S&P 500 suffered a 5% decline, the longest streak since 1996, according to Bespoke Investment Group.  And August has a history of market scares. On August 24, 2015, the Dow spiraled 1,000 points before it rebounded. The S&P 500 nearly plunged into a bear market in August 2011 after the U.S. credit rating was downgraded.  "Let's not forget that crazy stuff happens in August," Michael Block, chief market strategist at Rhino Trading, wrote in a report.  JPMorgan's Kelly urged investors not to "get lulled into complacency" by the new highs in the U.S. stock market. He said there are better opportunities in overseas markets, especially in Europe.  "People shouldn't get mesmerized by Dow 22,000," he said. 
Dow nears 22,000; Apple defies gravity; AMC's scary preview
1. Dow 22,000: The Dow Jones industrial average is within spitting distance of 22,000 points. The U.S. index closed at a record high of 21,964 on Tuesday. U.S. stock futures are pointing up, indicating the Dow could surpass the 22,000-point mark in early trading.  The S&P 500 and Nasdaq are also trading near record highs set in late July.  European markets were mostly lower in early trading and Asian markets closed mixed.  2. Apple defies gravity: Shares in Apple (AAPL, Tech30) are defying the laws of gravity (sorry Isaac Newton!).  The stock is in position to set new records on Wednesday. Shares were up 6% in premarket trading after the tech giant released earnings on Tuesday afternoon.  Investors are celebrating the company's outlook. Apple estimated that sales for its fourth quarter, which ends in September, could reach $52 billion, more than analysts had expected.  That forecast suggested that Apple could launch its newest iPhone model -- expected to be called the iPhone 8 -- in September, despite earlier rumors of a possible delay.  Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!  3. AMC's scary trailer: Investors in U.S. cinema chain AMC Entertainment (AMC) have been spooked by an earnings warning.  Shares in the company were dropping by about 24% premarket.  The firm reported Tuesday afternoon that it had a very weak second quarter and was cutting costs. It expects to report a loss when final results come out next week.  The company, controlled by Chinese billionaire Wang Jianlin, said the U.S. film industry had a "weaker than anticipated second quarter and [expects] a very challenging third quarter."  4. Earnings and economics: Groupon (GRPN), Molson Coors Brewing (TAP), Mondelez International (MDLZ), Party City (PRTY), Sinclair Broadcast (SBGI), Sodastream (SODA) and CNN parent company Time Warner (TWX) will release earnings before the open Wednesday.  Tesla (TSLA), Sturm Ruger (RGR), AIG (AIG), CenturyLink (CTL), Cheesecake Factory (CAKE), Fitbit (FIT), MetLife (MET), Prudential (PRU), Square (SQ) and Take-Two Interactive (TTWO) will follow after the close.  On the economics side, the ADP's private payroll report at 8:15 a.m. ET could move markets.  The report will give investors a look at the labor market prior to the release of the government jobs report due Friday.  Economists expect the ADP report will show that the private sector added 190,000 jobs in July, according to Briefing.com.  The U.S. Energy Information Administration will release weekly data on crude inventories at 10:30 a.m. Crude futures were trading around $49 per barrel, down from $50 per barrel on Tuesday.  5. Diesel summit in Germany: Germany's biggest automakers -- Volkswagen (VLKAY), BMW (BMWYY) and Daimler (DMLRY) -- are gathering with government ministers in Berlin for a 'diesel summit' on Wednesday.  They'll discuss ideas on how to reduce diesel emissions as some German cities consider banning diesel cars.  Stuttgart -- the home of Daimler's Mercedes-Benz and Volkswagen's Porsche -- is considering a ban on diesel cars as early as January 1.  Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news  6. Coming this week:  Wednesday -- Earnings from CNN parent company Time Warner (TWX), Molson Coors Brewing (TAP) and Tesla (TSLA); Germany's auto industry holds 'diesel summit'  Thursday -- Earnings from Weight Watchers, (WTW) Hyatt Hotels (H), Yum Brands (YUM), GoPro (GPRO, Tech30) and Kraft Heinz (KHC) Friday -- U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics releases monthly jobs and unemployment report 
