Apple finally speaks up on net neutrality
Apple is finally weighing in on the debate over the future of the Internet. The tech giant called on the Federal Communications Commission to "retain strong, enforceable open internet protections" in a public comment on the proposal to overhaul net neutrality protections.  "We work hard to build great products, and what consumers do with those tools is up to them — not Apple, and not broadband providers," Cynthia Hogan, VP of public policy at Apple, said in a comment filed to the FCC.  The FCC voted in May to move forward with a proposal to roll back net neutrality protections put in place during the Obama administration. The rules are intended to prevent Internet providers from speeding up or slowing down traffic from specific websites.  Apple's response was filed as part of a public commenting period on the proposal. The deadline for comments was Wednesday.  Apple (AAPL, Tech30) highlighted the need for a continued ban on "fast lanes," a term for Internet providers picking favorites by deliberately speeding up or slowing down traffic from specific online services.  Related: Tech companies go big and small for net neutrality protest  Otherwise, Apple warns, "it could allow a broadband provider, not the consumer, to pick internet winners and losers, based on a broadband provider's priorities rather than the quality of the service."  Apple appeared to diverge from some net neutrality advocates on at least one key point: leaving the door slightly open to other enforcement options.  As part of the 2015 net neutrality process, the FCC voted to assert more regulatory control over Internet providers by reclassifying them as common carriers, similar to telephone services.  Ajit Pai, the FCC chairman appointed by President Trump, wants to repeal that reclassification. Net neutrality advocates say that renders any protections toothless.  In its comment, Apple said it "remains open to alternative sources of legal authority, but only if they provide for strong, enforceable, and legally sustainable protections, like those in place today."  Apple has been notably silent his year on the net neutrality issue.  Dozens of tech companies staged an online protest last month to preserve net neutrality. The list included Facebook (FB, Tech30), Google (GOOGL, Tech30), Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) and Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) -- but not Apple. 
Apple will likely unveil new iPhones on Sept. 12
iPhone users awaiting the arrival of Apple's next-generation smartphone now have a date to circle on the calendar. Apple (AAPL, Tech30) will hold its annual product launch -- where it typically shows off new iPhone models and other product updates -- on Tuesday September 12.  For the first time, the event will be held at the spaceship-shaped Steve Jobs Theater on its new Cupertino, California headquarters, expected to open later this year.  This year is expected to be a big one for Apple, since 2017 marks the 10-year anniversary of the iPhone. Rumors indicate the company will introduce three new devices at the event: the iPhone 7S, iPhone 7S Plus and the so-called iPhone 8, which will be the 10th anniversary edition.  The iPhone 7S line is expected to feature incremental updates, but the anniversary phone could get a whole new look.  Related: Fitbit tries to catch up to the Apple Watch  Apple CEO Tim Cook was recently photographed with a taller iPhone in his pocket, which lines up with rumors that it'll come with a 5.8 inch display. To put that into perspective, the iPhone 7 is 4.7 inches and the iPhone 7 Plus is 5.5 inches.  The anniversary device is also expected to include an OLED display that has richer colors, wireless charging, a virtual home button and facial recognition technology. There's lot of speculation about its price, too, which could start at $1,200 -- twice the cost of an unlocked iPhone 7.  Apple is also expected to reveal its first cellular Apple Watch and a 4K Apple TV set-top box at the event.  Although the launch event is slated for September, it may take a while for customers to get their hands on a new iPhone. Some analysts believe the anniversary device could be in short supply, citing "constrained supplies." 
